SOURCE: https://download.asic.gov.au/media/on5fk2xr/rg181-published-16-december-2025-20260121.pdf
FINAL URL: https://download.asic.gov.au/media/on5fk2xr/rg181-published-16-december-2025-20260121.pdf
FETCHED: 2026-10-08

REGULATORY GUIDE 181

AFS licensing: Managing
conflicts of interest

December 2025


About this guide
This guide is for Australian financial services (AFS) licensees, their
representatives and AFS licence applicants.

It explains the legal obligations under the Corporations Act for having
adequate arrangements to manage conflicts of interest. It includes guidance
on identifying conflicts, what adequate arrangements involve, and effective
conflicts management through a range of tools.
                                                  REGULATORY GUIDE 181: AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest




                                 About ASIC regulatory documents

                                 In administering legislation ASIC issues the following types of regulatory
                                 documents.
                                 Consultation papers: seek feedback from stakeholders on matters ASIC
                                 is considering, such as proposed relief or proposed regulatory guidance.
                                 Regulatory guides: give guidance to regulated entities by:
                                     explaining when and how ASIC will exercise specific powers under
                                      legislation (primarily the Corporations Act)
                                     explaining how ASIC interprets the law
                                     describing the principles underlying ASIC’s approach
                                     giving practical guidance (e.g. describing the steps of a process such
                                      as applying for a licence or giving practical examples of how
                                      regulated entities may decide to meet their obligations).
                                 Information sheets: provide concise guidance on a specific process or
                                 compliance issue or an overview of detailed guidance.
                                 Reports: describe ASIC compliance or relief activity or the results of a
                                 research project.



                             Document history
                             This guide was issued in December 2025 and is based on legislation and
                             regulations as at the date of issue. In January 2026 we corrected a typo in
                             the appendix.

                             Previous versions:
                                    Superseded Regulatory Guide 181, issued August 2004.


                             Disclaimer
                             This guide does not constitute legal advice. We encourage you to seek your
                             own professional advice to find out how the Corporations Act and other
                             applicable laws apply to you, as it is your responsibility to determine your
                             obligations.

                             Examples in this guide are purely for illustration; they are not exhaustive and
                             are not intended to impose or imply particular rules or requirements.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission December 2025                                              Page 2
                                                       REGULATORY GUIDE 181: AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest




Contents


                             A      Overview ........................................................................................... 4
                             B      Your conflicts management obligation ......................................... 5
                                    Your obligation ................................................................................... 5
                                    Purpose of the obligation ................................................................... 5
                                    Scope of the obligation ...................................................................... 6
                                    Other legal obligations ....................................................................... 6
                                    Complying with your obligation .......................................................... 8
                             C      Identifying conflicts of interest .................................................... 10
                                    What is a conflict of interest? ........................................................... 10
                                    Types of conflicts ............................................................................. 11
                                    Specific considerations when identifying conflicts ........................... 14
                             D      Having adequate arrangements ................................................... 16
                                    What are adequate arrangements? ................................................. 16
                                    Taking a proportionate and risk-based approach ............................ 16
                                    What should your arrangements include? ....................................... 18
                                    Documents and record keeping ....................................................... 19
                             E      Effective conflicts management ................................................... 20
                                    Avoiding conflicts of interest ............................................................ 20
                                    Controlling conflicts of interest ......................................................... 21
                                    Disclosing conflicts of interest.......................................................... 22
                                    Specific considerations for managing conflicts ................................ 24
                             Appendix: Catalogue—Key legal obligations and information
                                relevant to conflicts management ............................................... 26
                                What is the purpose of this catalogue? ........................................... 26
                                How to use this catalogue................................................................ 26
                                Important information about the catalogue ...................................... 26
                                Catalogue: Key obligations for AFS licensees................................. 27
                                Catalogue: Key obligations for other licensees ............................... 38
                             Key terms ............................................................................................... 40
                             Related information ............................................................................... 42




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission December 2025                                                                      Page 3
                                                  REGULATORY GUIDE 181: AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest




A          Overview


                              Key points

                              This guide sets out how you should comply with the Australian financial
                              services (AFS) licence obligation to have adequate arrangements in place
                              to manage conflicts of interest.


              RG 181.1       If you are an AFS licensee or applicant, you must comply with your
                             licensing obligation to have adequate arrangements in place to manage
                             conflicts of interest.

              RG 181.2       This guide explains:
                             (a)   how the law applies, including its scope and interaction with other
                                   related obligations (Section B);
                             (b)   the types of conflicts you may need to consider (Section C);
                             (c)   what constitutes ‘adequate arrangements’ to manage conflicts—
                                   supported by specific steps to identify, assess, and respond to conflicts,
                                   and implement, maintain, monitor and review your arrangements
                                   (Section D); and
                             (d)   what effective conflicts management involves—that is, avoiding,
                                   controlling, and disclosing conflicts (Section E).

              RG 181.3       This guide also sets out that you should take a proportionate and risk-based
                             approach to your conflicts management obligation, tailored to your facts and
                             circumstances as they arise or change.

              RG 181.4       Further guidance is available in the appendix to this guide. It provides a
                             catalogue of key legal obligations and information relevant to your
                             compliance with the conflicts management obligation.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission December 2025                                              Page 4
                                                   REGULATORY GUIDE 181: AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest




B          Your conflicts management obligation


                              Key points

                              If you are an AFS licensee or applicant, you must have in place adequate
                              arrangements to manage conflicts of interest.

                              This obligation is broad. Other relevant financial service laws inform how
                              you should comply with your conflicts management obligation.




Your obligation
              RG 181.5       If you are an AFS licensee, or an AFS licence applicant, you must comply
                             with your general licensing obligations under s912A of the Corporations Act
                             2001 (Corporations Act).

                                  Note 1: For an overview of the general licensing obligations of AFS licensees, see
                                  Regulatory Guide 104 AFS licensing: Meeting the general obligations (RG 104).

                                  Note 2: In this guide, references to sections (s), chapters (Ch), divisions (Div). and parts
                                  (Pt) are to the Corporations Act, unless otherwise specified.

              RG 181.6       This includes your obligation to have in place adequate arrangements for
                             managing conflicts of interest that may arise wholly, or partially, in relation
                             to activities undertaken by you or your representatives in the provision of
                             financial services as part of your financial services business or the financial
                             services business of your representatives (‘the conflicts management
                             obligation’): see s912A(1)(aa).

              RG 181.7       The conflicts management obligation does not require you to eliminate all
                             conflicts of interest. Rather, it requires you to adequately and effectively
                             manage all conflicts of interest. You can manage many conflicts of interest
                             with a combination of control mechanisms and disclosures. However, if you
                             cannot manage a conflict in this way, you should instead avoid it.

                                  Note: For further guidance on what effective conflicts management involves, see
                                  Section E.




Purpose of the obligation
              RG 181.8       Managing conflicts of interest is a central pillar of financial services
                             regulation.

              RG 181.9       The obligation is intended to ensure financial markets and services are fair,
                             efficient, and honest. It promotes both consumer protection and market



© Australian Securities and Investments Commission December 2025                                                       Page 5
                                                  REGULATORY GUIDE 181: AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest




                             integrity—preventing misconduct and reducing harm to consumers or
                             investors. It can also improve economic efficiency.

                                  Note: For the objectives of the financial services regime (including for the general
                                  licensing obligations), see s760A.

              RG 181.10      It is also beneficial to you—it improves the quality and integrity of your
                             financial services business.



Scope of the obligation
              RG 181.11      The conflicts management obligation is broad and is intended to apply
                             widely—it is not limited in its application. It applies to all conflicts of
                             interest other than those wholly outside (i.e. completely separate to) the
                             financial services business of you or your representative.

                                  Note: While the conflicts management obligation is intended to apply broadly, you
                                  should take a proportionate and risk-based approach to managing conflicts, tailored to
                                  the facts and circumstances as they arise or change: see RG 181.52–RG 181.53.

              RG 181.12      It applies to conflicts of interest that arise within the financial services
                             business. It also applies to conflicts that arise between something within the
                             financial services business and something outside it, particularly where the
                             relationship, interest or activity may affect (or reasonably appear to affect)
                             how financial services are provided by the business. For example, an
                             employee prioritising their competing personal or financial interest outside
                             the business may affect how they provide financial services within the
                             business, as well as the quality of the services they provide.

                                  Note: See Table 1 for illustrative examples of different types of conflicts across
                                  financial services.

              RG 181.13      The conflicts management obligation does not include conflicts that are
                             outside of and unrelated to the financial services business.

                                  Note: See the Explanatory Memorandum to the Corporate Law Economic Reform
                                  Program (Audit Reform and Corporate Disclosure) Bill 2003 (Explanatory
                                  Memorandum) at paragraphs 5.597 and 5.599.




Other legal obligations

                             General licensing obligations

              RG 181.14      The conflicts management obligation works together with and supplements
                             the general licensing obligation to act efficiently, honestly and fairly.

              RG 181.15      The general licensing obligations—including your compliance with the
                             financial services laws and establishing and maintaining adequate risk


© Australian Securities and Investments Commission December 2025                                                       Page 6
                                                   REGULATORY GUIDE 181: AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest




                             management systems—inform how you must comply with the conflicts
                             management obligation.


                             Other legal requirements

              RG 181.16      Other laws may apply to you that relate to conflicts of interest or conduct
                             potentially affected by conflicts. You must take these laws into account
                             when complying with your conflicts management obligation.

              RG 181.17      The appendix provides a catalogue of key legal obligations and information
                             you may need to consider when complying with your conflicts management
                             obligation. How you incorporate other relevant legal obligations informs the
                             adequacy of your arrangements. Some obligations may also determine the
                             way you manage certain conflicts. For example:
                             (a)   if you are a director of a financial services business, you must comply
                                   with your directors’ duties—including your obligation to disclose
                                   material personal interests when a conflict arises;
                             (b)   if you are a market participant, you must comply with the market
                                   integrity rules—including those related to managing conflicts;
                             (c)   if you are the responsible entity of a registered managed investment
                                   scheme, you must comply with your responsible entity duties—
                                   including your obligation to act in the best interests of scheme members
                                   and to prioritise the interests of members over your own where they
                                   conflict; and
                             (d)   if you are an AFS licensee or their representative, an employer of an
                                   AFS licensee or their representative, or a financial product issuer or
                                   seller, you must comply with the ban on conflicted remuneration—
                                   including the prohibition against giving or accepting certain types of
                                   benefits relating to the provision of financial product advice.

                                   Note: For further guidance on what constitutes ‘adequate arrangements’, see Section D.

              RG 181.18      The catalogue is not an exhaustive list. You must consider other legal
                             requirements, including in common law and equity, that may apply to you.
                             This includes any relevant conduct prohibitions that may be affected by
                             conflicts, such as misleading and deceptive conduct, unconscionable
                             conduct, or insider trading and market misconduct.

              RG 181.19      You may also need to consider legal requirements outside the financial
                             services laws that may be relevant to you, such as privacy obligations.


                             Fiduciary duty

              RG 181.20      You or your representatives may owe a fiduciary duty to your clients,
                             members, or other parties.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission December 2025                                                   Page 7
                                                   REGULATORY GUIDE 181: AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest




              RG 181.21      A fiduciary duty can arise under common law in certain recognised
                             relationships of trust and confidence. If a fiduciary duty exists, subject to any
                             terms governing the fiduciary relationship, you may need to act in the other
                             party’s best interests, prioritise their interests, not profit without consent, or
                             address any conflicts.

              RG 181.22      You must take this duty into account when complying with your conflicts
                             management obligation. Whether an AFS licensee is in a fiduciary position
                             will also inform the adequacy of their conflict management arrangements.

                                   Note: See Australian Securities and Investments Commission v Avestra Asset
                                   Management Limited (In Liquidation) (2017) 348 ALR 525, 562 (ASIC v Avestra).


                             Industry standards or codes

              RG 181.23      We may consider your compliance with industry standards or practices in
                             assessing your compliance with the conflicts management obligation.
                             Specifically, we will take industry standards or codes of conduct into
                             account if the law or your AFS licence conditions require you to comply
                             with a particular standard or code.


                             International obligations

              RG 181.24      You may be subject to international obligations or standards on conflicts
                             management. While we check compliance with the Australian conflicts
                             management obligation and AFS licence conditions, we may also consider
                             how your international obligations inform your compliance.



Complying with your obligation
              RG 181.25      If we have reason to believe you are not complying with your conflicts
                             management obligation, we may take enforcement action.

                                   Note: Our general approach to enforcement is set out in Information Sheet 151 ASIC’s
                                   approach to enforcement (INFO 151).

              RG 181.26      This could include administrative action, such as suspending or cancelling
                             your AFS licence or imposing additional licence conditions: see s915C(1)
                             and s914A(1).

                                   Note: If you have reasonable grounds to believe that you have failed to comply with
                                   your conflicts management obligation, you may be required to report this breach to
                                   ASIC—see Regulatory Guide 78 Breach reporting by AFS licensees and credit
                                   licensees (RG 78).

              RG 181.27      Depending on the severity, a breach of your conflicts management obligation
                             may result in civil penalties:
                             (a)   for individuals, the greater of:



© Australian Securities and Investments Commission December 2025                                                   Page 8
                                                   REGULATORY GUIDE 181: AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest




                                   (i)     5,000 penalty units; or
                                   (ii)    if the court can determine—three times the benefit derived from (or
                                           detriment avoided) by the contravention; and
                             (b)   for corporations, the greater of:
                                   (i)     50,000 penalty units;
                                   (ii)    if the court can determine—three times the benefit derived from (or
                                           detriment avoided by) the contravention; or
                                   (iii)   10% of annual turnover, up to a maximum value of 2.5 million
                                           penalty units (see s912A(5A) and 1317G).

                                   Note: For more information about penalties, including the value of a penalty unit, see
                                   Fines and penalties on the ASIC website.

              RG 181.28      When assessing your compliance with the conflicts management obligation,
                             we may consider the materiality or seriousness of any conflict of interest that
                             occurs or may occur or systemic failures.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission December 2025                                                     Page 9
                                                   REGULATORY GUIDE 181: AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest




C          Identifying conflicts of interest


                              Key points

                              You should identify all relevant conflicts, including those arising from
                              confidential information or business structures.

                              Conflicts of interest include actual and potential conflicts.

                              To help you identify conflicts, we have set out different types and illustrative
                              examples of conflicts to consider.




What is a conflict of interest?
              RG 181.29      A conflict of interest can arise where there are competing financial interests,
                             personal interests, business or related party interests—whether direct or
                             indirect—or competing loyalties and obligations. In some circumstances, a
                             combination of these may give rise to a conflict.

              RG 181.30      This guide deals with the conflicts management obligation. It is generally
                             concerned with conflicts that have a real and sensible possibility of swaying
                             your judgement or actions—or those of your representatives (including
                             employees, directors or agents)—in an adverse way.

              RG 181.31      You should take a ‘common-sense’ and objective approach to determining if
                             there is a conflict of interest. Whether there is a conflict of interest will
                             ultimately turn on the facts and circumstances of a situation.

              RG 181.32      Conflicts of interest can be:
                             (a)   actual—where a conflict currently exists that could sway your
                                   judgement or actions (or those of your representatives); and
                             (b)   potential—where circumstances do not currently give rise to an actual
                                   conflict but could reasonably be expected to do so in the future.

                                   Note: In determining whether an actual or potential conflict exists that could sway your
                                   judgement or actions, you should take into account whether a reasonable person might
                                   consider such a conflict exists.

              RG 181.33      A conflict of interest can include:
                             (a)   conflicts of, or within, the financial services business (including
                                   conflicts arising from its corporate structure and relationships);
                             (b)   the conflicts of any individual—for example, clients (retail or
                                   wholesale), members, shareholders, employees, directors, third
                                   parties—that arise in relation to the financial services business; and




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission December 2025                                                    Page 10
                                                   REGULATORY GUIDE 181: AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest




                             (c)   the conflicts of any entity—for example, wholesale clients,
                                   counterparties, related entities in intra-group structures, commercial
                                   third parties—that arise in relation to the financial services business.

              RG 181.34      In addition, the following factors may be relevant to the materiality or
                             seriousness of a conflict of interest:
                             (a)   the nature of relationship between parties in a conflict—conflicts can
                                   occur across a range of business and interpersonal relationships,
                                   including fiduciary relationships;
                             (b)   the scale of a conflict—conflicts cover situations ranging from those
                                   that result in minor breaches to those that result in significant harm to
                                   affected parties, misconduct, or corruption;
                             (c)   the outcome of a conflict—conflicts can compromise the independence,
                                   objectivity or impartiality required in your circumstances or lead to
                                   negative consequences for your business or to consumers (such as
                                   customers, clients, members or investors); and
                             (d)   the other legal duties, obligations or prohibitions applicable to the
                                   conflict—conflict situations may be governed by a range of laws,
                                   including those that require you to treat certain conflicts in specific
                                   ways (e.g. prioritising the best financial interests of members).

                                   Note: For further guidance on other legal requirements, see RG 181.16–RG 181.24 and
                                   the appendix.




Types of conflicts
              RG 181.35      When applying the conflicts management obligation, you should consider all
                             conflicts that may be relevant to your financial services business.

              RG 181.36      Table 1 provides illustrative examples of different types of actual and
                             potential conflicts across financial services, with a focus on the factors that
                             give rise to a conflict (such as the competing interests of individuals and
                             their relationships). It is not intended to be an exhaustive list or used as a
                             checklist. Instead, it provides examples that you should consider, tailor and
                             apply to your circumstances.

                                   Note 1: You should take an objective approach to identifying conflicts of interest,
                                   including when assessing whether they are actual or potential—RG 181.31–RG 181.32.

                                   Note 2: You may operate in various roles across the different transactions illustrated in
                                   Table 1—such as principal, agent, market maker or regulated entity—each involving
                                   different types of conflicts and legal obligations.

              RG 181.37      For guidance on managing these types of conflicts, see Section E.

                                   Note: Certain examples in Table 1 may also illustrate conduct prohibited by other laws
                                   (e.g. insider trading). Your arrangements should ensure that a conflict of interest does




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission December 2025                                                     Page 11
                                                  REGULATORY GUIDE 181: AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest




                                  not result in prohibited conduct. Avoiding these conflicts may be the most effective
                                  conflicts management tool for your circumstances: see RG 181.54–RG 181.55 and
                                  RG 181.68.


Table 1:    Illustrative examples of conflicts

 Type of conflict           Illustrative example

 Conflicts with clients      An insurance broker—influenced by their financial interest—recommending to a
 or members                   client a product that generates higher commission over a product with similar
                              coverage but that would result in lower commission.
                             An adviser in a position where they can recommend that clients invest in financial
                              products from a related entity—creating a potential conflict as they could prioritise
                              their own financial and related-party interests over the interests of clients.
                             A stockbroker—incentivised by their remuneration arrangements to maximise
                              trading volume (i.e. to generate brokerage from which they will personally benefit)
                              on clients’ accounts—trading in a manner that is inconsistent with their clients’
                              interests.
                             A private credit fund operator—which may be motivated by its financial interest in
                              retaining fees and interest margins on loans under management—prioritising its
                              own revenue over the interests of fund members, even though the fund members
                              provide the capital and carry the credit risk.

 Conflicts between           A multi-disciplinary firm—prioritising its business and financial interests over its
 clients, members, or         clients’ interests—leveraging confidential information obtained from one client of
 classes of persons           its financial services business to obtain new clients in its other businesses.
                             A corporate advisory—steered by its own business interests—deciding to provide
                              confidential information about a takeover transaction to the directors and
                              management of the target company or to other firms it is seeking to do business
                              with when advising on a takeover transaction, to the detriment of other
                              shareholders or potential bidders.

 Structural conflicts        A related-party service provider to a responsible entity—motivated by the interests
                              of the corporate group—performing the outsourced functions in a manner that
                              prioritises the commercial interests of the responsible entities and/or entities in the
                              corporate group over outcomes for investors.
                             A financial services group—incentivised by its dual financial interest in the
                              success of an entity’s capital raising (through underwriting or another distribution
                              role) and loan repayment (as a creditor)—distributing the entity’s capital raising in
                              order to ensure repayment of the loan.
                             A financial institution—influenced by its financial and related-party interests—
                              provides financial product advice recommending a related entity’s high-cost home
                              insurance product at a premium price to new home loan customers.
                             A superannuation trustee, responsible entity or product issuer that owns a
                              financial advice business and permits the business to recommend the owner
                              entity’s products to clients—creating a potential conflict as these entities could
                              prioritise their own financial interests over the interests of clients.

                             A multi-disciplinary firm—incentivised by its business and financial interests—
                              offering auditing services to a client while also providing the same client with financial
                              services (except where auditor independence requirements are complied with).




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission December 2025                                                   Page 12
                                                  REGULATORY GUIDE 181: AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest




 Type of conflict           Illustrative example

 Proprietary conflicts       A financial institution as an agent—prioritising its own financial and business
                              interests—using confidential client order instructions that have yet to be traded
                              when hedging risks or obtaining beneficial prices in proprietary trading.
                             A market maker—prioritising its financial interests—using confidential information
                              from client orders to benefit its proprietary trading by front running orders and taking
                              advantage of the anticipated price impact of the order.
                             The responsible entity of a registered managed investment scheme—influenced by
                              its related party interest—lending to a related company when there are inadequate
                              arrangements to manage the risks and insufficient evidence that the transaction is
                              managed at arm’s length.

 Conflicts relating to       An insurance broker—influenced by its financial interest arising from cross-
 duties                       ownership or shareholdings between the broker (or its corporate group) and an
                              insurer or underwriter it places business with—recommending or placing policies
                              that benefit the related insurer (including non-monetary benefits and/or other
                              incentives), rather than those that are most suitable for the client.
                             The director of both a general insurer and an advertising agency involved in
                              deciding which advertising agency the general insurer engages to promote its car
                              insurance products—creating a potential conflict as the director could be
                              influenced by their personal interest arising from their advertising agency
                              affiliation.

 Third-party conflicts       An investment manager, which has been outsourced by a responsible entity
                              making investment decisions that prioritise its own business interests or those of
                              its related entities over the best interests of investors.
                             A comparison website—influenced by their financial interests in relation to certain
                              financial products—prioritising and recommending those products to consumers.
                             An investment manager of a fund, who is solely responsible for valuing the assets
                              of the fund and derives asset-based management fees (i.e. the valuation is not
                              determined or reviewed by an independent third-party)—influenced by their own
                              financial interests—artificially inflating the value of those assets.

 Individual conflicts        An adviser—prioritising their own and related party interests—recommending that
                              a client set up a self-managed superannuation fund to borrow money and invest in
                              residential property, where the adviser receives a commission from a related party
                              property developer for referring the client.

                             The personal interest of an employee of a corporate advisory influencing the
                              sharing of their sell-side client’s material, non-public information with an employee
                              from the buy-side, to the detriment of the rest of their buy-side clients.

                             An employee of a superannuation trustee in a position where they can approve
                              investment strategies that result in financial benefit to the employee—creating a
                              potential conflict as they could be influenced by their own financial interest.
                             A research analyst—influenced by their personal interests in holdings and
                              proprietary business interests—compromising their independence in selecting a
                              company for research, promoting the company or overstating the company’s
                              prospects to clients, for the analyst’s own benefit.
                             A director or executive of a superannuation fund who is privy to price-sensitive
                              information about fund transaction activities (such as the revaluation of an unlisted
                              asset)—influenced by their personal and financial interests—using that
                              information for personal gain by switching investment options based on their
                              knowledge of the timing of that revaluation.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission December 2025                                                Page 13
                                                   REGULATORY GUIDE 181: AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest




Specific considerations when identifying conflicts
              RG 181.38      You should consider the following factors when identifying the types of
                             conflicts that may arise.

                             Confidentiality

              RG 181.39      Receiving confidential information may give rise to a conflict of interest.
                             This may be confidential information received in the ordinary course of
                             business, information that is price-sensitive, or material non-public
                             information (‘inside information’).
                                   Note: For the definition of ‘inside information’, see s1042A(1) of the Corporations Act.

              RG 181.40      You or your staff should not misuse confidential information in a way that
                             may benefit yourself, another part of your business, another client or
                             counterparty, or generally affect market integrity.

                             Conflict of duties

              RG 181.41      A conflict of duties will generally give rise to a conflict of interest. This may
                             include directors’ duties, fiduciary or common law duties, or duties of a
                             particular role (such as a responsible manager or auditor).

              RG 181.42      You should also consider conflicts between duties, or a conflict between a
                             duty and an interest. For example, there may be a conflict:
                             (a)   between a fiduciary duty to one client and a fiduciary duty to another
                                   client;
                             (b)   if one part of a financial services business owes a fiduciary duty to a
                                   client, while another part of the financial services business is acting
                                   against that client’s interests;
                             (c)   between a director’s duties in a financial services business and their
                                   duties to another company; or
                             (d)   between a director’s duties in a financial services business and their
                                   personal interests.

              RG 181.43      A conflict of duties may also relate to:
                             (a)   an individual’s professional, legal, or other duties and interests; or
                             (b)   the statutory obligations and duties of an entity.


                             Structural conflicts

              RG 181.44      Misaligned incentives resulting from business structures may give rise to
                             conflicts of interest. This may be the result of:
                             (a)   vertical integration of product issuers, product manufacturers, product
                                   sales or advisory roles, and service providers;



© Australian Securities and Investments Commission December 2025                                                   Page 14
                                                  REGULATORY GUIDE 181: AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest




                             (b)   the influence of related entities; or
                             (c)   misaligned incentives between business units or intra-group structures
                                   in a conglomerate firm or financial institution.


                             Third-party commercial relationships

              RG 181.45      Third-party commercial relationships of your financial services business
                             may also raise conflict issues. This includes any conflicts you may have in
                             relation to a third party or conflicts a third party may have that impacts your
                             financial services business.

              RG 181.46      Third-party commercial relationships may include outsourced functions of
                             your financial services business, relationships with product issuers or
                             advisers, or those engaged to undertake specific activities—such as auditors,
                             lawyers, valuers, consultants, accountants or experts.


                             Remuneration

              RG 181.47      Remuneration practices, including non-monetary benefits, may cause
                             misaligned incentives and result in conflicts of interest. These practices may
                             include commissions, volume-based remuneration, staff rewards and
                             bonuses, or expenses. They may result in poor consumer outcomes and lead
                             to harms, such as consumers:
                             (a)   being sold financial products or services that are not in their interests,
                                   due to the commissions or financial benefits you can earn; or
                             (b)   being charged unnecessary fees or excessive expenses.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission December 2025                                             Page 15
                                                  REGULATORY GUIDE 181: AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest




D          Having adequate arrangements


                              Key points

                              Arrangements for managing conflicts of interest should be robust, effective,
                              and tailored to your circumstances. You should take a proportionate and
                              risk-based approach.

                              In practice, you should clearly identify, assess, and respond to conflicts.
                              You should also implement, monitor, maintain, and review your
                              arrangements.

                              Table 2 outlines arrangements you should generally have in place to
                              manage conflicts.



What are adequate arrangements?
              RG 181.48      You must have adequate arrangements to manage conflicts of interest. Your
                             arrangements should be robust and effective.

                                   Note: See the Explanatory Memorandum at paragraph 5.597.

              RG 181.49      Your arrangements should be tailored with your own circumstances in mind
                             and designed to meet your obligations. Whether your arrangements are
                             adequate will depend on several factors, including the nature, scale and
                             complexity of your business.

                                   Note: See ASIC v Avestra.

              RG 181.50      You should take a proportionate and risk-based approach to your conflicts
                             management obligation: see RG 181.52–RG 181.59.

              RG 181.51      Your arrangements may include:
                             (a)   policies, processes and procedures;
                             (b)   people and resources;
                             (c)   systems and controls over the business and staff; and
                             (d)   governance and supervisory arrangements.



Taking a proportionate and risk-based approach
              RG 181.52      You should take a proportionate and risk-based approach to your conflicts
                             management obligation based on:
                             (a)   your legal and compliance requirements—including other related laws
                                   and obligations (see the appendix);



© Australian Securities and Investments Commission December 2025                                             Page 16
                                                    REGULATORY GUIDE 181: AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest




                             (b)   the risks posed by a conflict of interest or class of conflicts—including:
                                   (i)     the likelihood of a conflict occurring;
                                   (ii)    the materiality or seriousness of a conflict;
                                   (iii)   any resulting misconduct or harm (such as consumer, investor, or
                                           economic harm, including to your financial services business) or
                                           impact to market integrity;
                                   (iv)    whether similar conflicts have arisen in the past; and
                                   (v)     how conflict management activities may change the risk posed by a
                                           conflict; and
                             (c)   the nature, scale and complexity of your business.

              RG 181.53      How you address these factors informs the adequacy of your arrangements.
                             Whether your arrangements are adequate to effectively manage conflicts is a
                             question of fact in each case and may change over time.

                             Other legal requirements

              RG 181.54      Depending on other legal obligations that apply—such as your fiduciary
                             duties, best interest obligations, or prudential requirements—you may need
                             to prioritise the interests of members or clients (retail or wholesale) in a
                             conflict or have different or more robust arrangements in place. Some
                             conflicts may also be prohibited, such as conflicted remuneration.

                                   Note: See Regulatory Guide 246 Conflicted and other banned remuneration (RG 246).

              RG 181.55      Your arrangements should also ensure that a conflict does not result in
                             prohibited conduct.

                             Risks posed by a conflict

              RG 181.56      Conflicts of interest can be a significant driver of consumer, investor, and
                             economic harm and can also impact market integrity. The risks posed by a
                             conflict may not be realised unless acted on or may change over time.

              RG 181.57      You should tailor your arrangements—including how you effectively
                             manage conflicts—to the risks posed by a conflict or a class of conflicts,
                             including the risks to you, other affected parties, or market integrity.

                             Nature, scale and complexity of the business

              RG 181.58      Your arrangements will differ based on the nature, scale and complexity of
                             your business. You should design and tailor these arrangements to your
                             circumstances. For example:
                             (a)   a listed company will have substantially different arrangements to a
                                   small business or sole trader; or




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission December 2025                                               Page 17
                                                    REGULATORY GUIDE 181: AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest




                              (b)   a firm that is part of a multi-national group may need to consider
                                    international obligations or standards when developing their
                                    arrangements—see RG 181.24.

                RG 181.59     The type and number of financial services you offer, as well as the level of
                              sophistication of your clients (i.e. whether they meet the criteria of the
                              wholesale client or investor tests), will also influence the nature and scale of
                              your arrangements.

                                    Note: For the wholesale investor test, see s708. For the wholesale client tests, see s761G
                                    and 761GA.



What should your arrangements include?
                RG 181.60     You should have in place arrangements to identify and assess a conflict or
                              class of conflicts, and to respond to a conflict—that is, effectively manage
                              the conflict: see Section E.

                RG 181.61     You should also implement, monitor, maintain and review your
                              arrangements for them to be adequate.

                RG 181.62     Your arrangements may include, but are not limited to, the steps set out in
                              Table 2.

                                    Note: See ASIC v Avestra, as affirmed by the Federal Court in Australian Securities and
                                    Investments Commission v Westpac Banking Corporation (No 2) (2018) 357 ALR 240.


Table 2:       Adequate arrangements to manage conflicts

 Steps                Arrangements

 1. Identify          Your arrangements should help you identify when a conflict of interest or class of conflicts
                      may or does occur (including conflicts that a reasonable person might consider to exist).

                      This does not mean you need to identify every conflict of interest that may or does occur.
                      However, you should have in place arrangements to:
                       identify relevant conflicts based on the general risk and materiality or seriousness posed
                        by a conflict or class of conflicts; and
                       obtain further or specific information on a conflict, if appropriate.

                      The information you need to identify a conflict may depend on:
                       the role, type, or class of employee, client, or another party; or
                       the risks and potential harm posed by a conflict of interest or class of conflicts.

 2. Assess            Your arrangements should enable you to assess and evaluate a conflict of interest or class
                      of conflicts to effectively manage it. This includes considering the materiality or seriousness
                      of a conflict.

                      This may include undertaking a risk assessment of a conflict of interest or class of conflicts
                      and evaluating what an appropriate response would be.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission December 2025                                                     Page 18
                                                   REGULATORY GUIDE 181: AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest




 Steps               Arrangements

 3. Respond          You should decide on and apply an appropriate response to effectively manage a conflict of
                     interest. For guidance on effective conflicts management, see Section E.

                     Responding to a conflict also includes having arrangements to evaluate and monitor the
                     effectiveness of your specific response and rectifying or providing remedial action if the
                     response is not effective. For example:
                      regular checks to ensure your response remains effective and that you are managing the
                       conflict properly over time;
                      adjusting controls if the conflict changes in scope or impact; or
                      verifying disclosure continues to meet the needs of affected parties.

 4. Implement        You should implement, monitor, maintain and review your arrangements to ensure they
                     remain robust and effective. This includes ensuring:
                      your senior management and, if appropriate, your board approves and endorses your
                       arrangements;
                      you appropriately train your staff and relevant parties to thoroughly understand the
                       arrangements and apply them to a range of conflicts;
                      you have systems in place and people with the authority to apply the arrangements to a
                       conflict of interest (i.e. compliance monitoring) and take appropriate action when
                       required;
                      you have a person or persons accountable for complying with your arrangements;
                      arrangements include disciplinary measures for non-compliance, if appropriate;
                      you appropriately document and store your arrangements; and
                      you or a third-party expert reviews your arrangements and updates them as necessary.
                     Merely having or possessing conflicts management arrangements is insufficient. To meet
                     your conflicts management obligation, you should be able to demonstrate that you have
                     integrated your arrangements into your business operations.




Documents and record keeping
              RG 181.63      You should document and keep records of your arrangements for them to be
                             adequate and to demonstrate your compliance, including by:
                             (a)   documenting identified conflicts and the actions taken (e.g. a conflicts
                                   register or multiple registers);
                             (b)   keeping records of reports made to your senior management or third
                                   parties about conflict matters; and
                             (c)   storing copies or records of any written disclosures given to affected
                                   parties—whether individually, as a representative sample, or as a record
                                   of oral disclosures—including any scripts used.

                                   Note: For related legal information and obligations you may need to consider, see the
                                   appendix.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission December 2025                                                   Page 19
                                                  REGULATORY GUIDE 181: AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest




E          Effective conflicts management


                              Key points

                              To effectively manage conflicts, you should use a combination of avoiding,
                              controlling, and disclosing conflicts of interest.

                              You should tailor these measures to your specific circumstances; in many
                              cases, disclosure alone may be insufficient to manage conflicts of interest
                              effectively.


              RG 181.64      Effective conflicts management will generally involve a combination of
                             avoiding, controlling, and disclosing conflicts of interest. This informs the
                             adequacy of your arrangements.

                                   Note: See ASIC v Avestra.

              RG 181.65      Conflicts management requires a proactive and strategic approach that goes
                             beyond mere disclosure. How you use controls to avoid or mitigate the risk
                             of conflicts, and disclosure to manage conflicts, should be tailored to the
                             specific facts and circumstances. This includes addressing risks associated
                             with a conflict of interest.

              RG 181.66      A failure to effectively manage a conflict may result in a breach of your
                             conflicts management obligation.

                                   Note: For example, see Australian Securities and Investments Commission v Westpac
                                   Banking Corporation (Penalty Hearing) [2024] FCA 52.




Avoiding conflicts of interest
              RG 181.67      Avoiding conflicts of interest may be the most effective conflicts
                             management tool for your circumstances.

              RG 181.68      Avoiding a conflict may involve identifying conflicts, or classes of conflict,
                             that could arise and proactively preventing these from occurring
                             (e.g. prohibiting certain activities) or eliminating an identified conflict
                             (e.g. refusing to enter a particular transaction). This can be contrasted with
                             control measures, which mitigate the risks associated with an existing
                             conflict but do not eliminate it.

              RG 181.69      Examples where you should avoid a conflict of interest include:
                             (a)   where the interests of one client are in direct conflict with the interests
                                   of another in the provision of your financial services; or




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission December 2025                                               Page 20
                                                  REGULATORY GUIDE 181: AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest




                             (b)   where remuneration practices place your interests in direct conflict with
                                   the interests of clients or members.

              RG 181.70      Measures you can consider as part of your arrangements to avoid certain
                             conflicts or classes of conflicts include:
                             (a)   having information barriers (both physical or virtual) in place—such as
                                   between different business units—to prevent the flow of confidential
                                   information, ensure structural separation and avoid conflicts between
                                   areas with differing interests;
                             (b)   prohibiting certain activities, such as certain types of remuneration; or
                             (c)   not providing specific services to certain types of clients.

              RG 181.71      You can also eliminate the risks arising from a conflict. For example, by:
                             (a)   removing a conflicted person from a transaction;
                             (b)   declining to service a client, or only servicing them under limited
                                   circumstances; or
                             (c)   refusing to enter a particular transaction.



Controlling conflicts of interest
              RG 181.72      Effective conflicts management does not require you to eliminate every
                             conflict, although that approach is open to you. You can put in place controls
                             to mitigate the risks associated with a conflict of interest. What is
                             appropriate will depend on the facts and circumstances.

              RG 181.73      When controlling conflicts of interest, you should aim to limit situations
                             where there is a real and sensible possibility that a conflict will adversely
                             sway or influence the judgement or actions of decision makers: see
                             RG 181.30.

              RG 181.74      Examples of controls that you may use to manage the risks associated with a
                             conflict of interest are listed in Table 3. It is not an exhaustive list.

Table 3:    Examples of conflict control mechanisms

 Type of control              Summary

 Information barriers         Robust information barriers (both physical or virtual) to prevent or restrict staff from
                              transferring or accessing information (including data) and to mitigate the effect of a
                              conflict of interest.

 Functional separation        Separation of relevant business units or teams (including physical segregation) to
                              minimise the risks of a conflict of interest.

 Communication controls       Controls around how certain staff or business units can communicate, including
                              what they should not communicate, and how and when communication occurs.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission December 2025                                               Page 21
                                                  REGULATORY GUIDE 181: AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest




 Type of control              Summary

 Approval requirements        Additional or separate approvals as a precondition for certain transactions or the
                              provision of financial services where there is a conflict, to provide additional
                              oversight and objectivity.

 Trading restrictions         Trading restrictions (including ‘blackout’ periods) to limit the risks of a conflict—for
                              example, if a person is working on an initial public offering or market transaction,
                              or holds certain financial products.

 Removal of staff             Removal of conflicted staff from a particular transaction or the provision of certain
                              financial services, to ensure objectivity or impartiality in activities.

 Arm’s length engagement      Engaging third-party service providers to deliver services—such as administration,
                              asset valuation, marketing and distribution—at arm’s length to ensure impartiality
                              and objectivity.

 Decision-making              Restrictions on conflicted parties or relevant staff, limiting their decision making on
 restrictions                 a particular transaction or the provision of certain financial services.

 Compliance monitoring        Mechanisms for compliance monitoring. For example, control rooms, compliance
                              officers or committees who are responsible for monitoring compliance with
                              documented conflict policies or leveraging design and distribution review
                              mechanisms.

 Governance and               Appropriate governance structures to monitor a conflict and ensure transparency,
 transparency                 with clear escalation channels and whistleblowing policies.

 Disciplinary measures        Disciplinary measures to minimise the likelihood of a conflict being acted on or
                              mitigate any risks associated with a conflict.




Disclosing conflicts of interest
              RG 181.75      Disclosure to customers (including clients, members and investors) or other
                             affected parties (such as prospective customers) is a mechanism that you can
                             use to manage conflicts of interest.

              RG 181.76      It should allow affected parties to understand and consider the impact of a
                             disclosed conflict before making an informed decision. For example,
                             effective disclosure should allow an investor to consider the risks and impact
                             of the conflict before making an investment decision.

              RG 181.77      Whether or not disclosure is an effective method to manage conflicts will
                             depend on the facts and circumstances, including the level of materiality or
                             seriousness of the conflict, the nature of the financial service and the needs
                             of the affected party. It may also depend on other relevant legal obligations.

              RG 181.78      In many cases, disclosure alone may be insufficient to effectively manage
                             conflicts. It may be more appropriate to control or avoid the conflict
                             altogether or to consider a combination of these mechanisms.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission December 2025                                                Page 22
                                                   REGULATORY GUIDE 181: AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest




              RG 181.79      How you disclose a conflict of interest will also depend on the facts and
                             circumstances of your situation, including the risks posed by the conflict, the
                             financial service you provide and who you are disclosing to (e.g. retail or
                             wholesale clients). You should only disclose material conflicts, considering
                             the cumulative effect of conflicts that arise in the financial services business
                             or within the financial services business structure. You should not use
                             excessive or unnecessary disclosure that could obscure or distract from an
                             issue.

                                  Note: The factors that may be relevant to the materiality or seriousness of a conflict are
                                  set out at RG 181.33.

              RG 181.80      You should ensure your disclosure is consistent with any other legal
                             requirements, including Pt 7.7 of the Corporations Act. You may incorporate
                             your conflicts disclosure into, or in addition to, your other disclosure
                             requirements.

              RG 181.81      Table 4 provides principles you should generally apply when using
                             disclosure to effectively manage conflicts.

Table 4: Disclosing a conflict of interest

 Principles                   Summary

 General disclosure           Disclosure should be timely, prominent, specific, and meaningful.
 principles
                              Giving generic or ‘boilerplate’ disclosure (i.e. disclosure that does not address the
                              nature and potential impact of a specific conflict) is unlikely to effectively manage a
                              conflict. Instead, disclosures should:
                               occur before or during the provision of the financial service, allowing time for the
                                affected party to assess its impact before making a decision;
                               be clear, targeted and useful to the affected party;
                               enable affected parties to make decisions based on the information received or
                                give consent to proceed, if appropriate; and
                               refer specifically to the financial service related to the conflict.

 Disclosure content           Disclosures should generally include:
                               the nature and relevant details of the conflict;
                               the likelihood of the conflict occurring;
                               the scale of the potential consequences if the conflict does occur, including any
                                advantages or disadvantages to you, other participants or beneficiaries, or the
                                affected party; and
                               realistic and actionable steps (if any) the person receiving the disclosure can take
                                to mitigate the risks of the conflict.
                                Note 1: See ASIC v Avestra.
                                Note 2: This is not intended to be a prescriptive list of content requirements for all
                                disclosures of conflicts of interest, including those required in a Financial Services Guide or
                                Statement of Advice. Disclosure content should be proportionate, and risk based, tailored to
                                the specific circumstances of the conflict.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission December 2025                                                       Page 23
                                                      REGULATORY GUIDE 181: AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest




 Principles                   Summary

 Methods of disclosure        Disclosure should be:
                               written or oral; and
                               presented in a way that is easily noticeable by affected parties.

 Inappropriate disclosure     In some cases, disclosing a conflict may be inappropriate, such as when:
                               the information is commercially sensitive or protected by a confidentiality
                                agreement;
                               it is in breach of privacy obligations; or
                               the disclosure amounts to ‘inside information’ under the insider trading provisions
                                (see Pt 7.10, Div 3).

 Disclosure for financial     When providing financial product advice to wholesale or retail clients, you should
 product advice               disclose any:
                               legal or beneficial interest in the financial products;
                               relationships with the issuer or provider of the products; and
                               financial or other benefits linked to the client following your advice.
                                   Note: You must consider how any disclosure interacts with your other relevant legal obligations,
                                   including specific disclosure requirements for retail clients—see the appendix.

 Disclosure for retail and    You should ensure that retail and wholesale clients can understand the nature,
 wholesale clients            potential risk and impact of the conflict. However, disclosures for wholesale clients
                              may be less detailed than for retail clients.

                              When disclosing to a client, you should consider:
                               their level of financial sophistication;
                               if a third party will or is likely to rely on this information, including if they will pass
                                on this information to retail clients or if the information will affect retail clients;
                               how much a client already knows; and
                               the complexity of the financial service.




Specific considerations for managing conflicts

                             Internal structures

              RG 181.82      Your internal structures and reporting lines should support effective conflicts
                             management.

              RG 181.83      You should consider how your organisation’s structure, layout, and reporting
                             processes can contribute to the incidences of certain conflicts occurring if
                             not managed. For example, you can assess whether it is appropriate for:
                             (a)     advisory staff to report to marketing staff;
                             (b)     standalone advice units to be in the same physical location as sales or
                                     investment staff; or
                             (c)     compliance or internal audit staff to report to a business unit.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission December 2025                                                          Page 24
                                                   REGULATORY GUIDE 181: AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest




                             Remuneration

              RG 181.84      You should ensure your remuneration practices, including any non-monetary
                             benefits, comply with your conflicts management obligation. For example,
                             you should:
                             (a)   disclose commissions that are based on sales; and
                             (b)   avoid remuneration structures where advisers only earn commission
                                   (i.e. where you pay no salary or other remuneration).

              RG 181.85      Some types of conflicted remuneration and benefits are banned. However,
                             some benefits that are not banned may still create conflicts of interest.

                                   Note: The Corporations Act bans certain conflicted remuneration and other benefits
                                   from being given to persons who provide financial product advice and other financial
                                   services to clients—see Divs 4 and 5 of Pt 7.7A.

              RG 181.86      Disclosure can help to manage conflicts, but you should avoid (and not
                             merely disclose or control) remuneration practices that create significant
                             conflicts—particularly if they place your interests in direct conflict with
                             clients or members.

              RG 181.87      Volume-based remuneration is typically conflicted as it creates incentives to
                             maximise sales at the expense of a client’s interests, but exceptions exist.
                             You should ensure that any benefits align with the conflicts management
                             obligation and any other relevant legal obligation (e.g. best interest duties).


                             Fair treatment of clients and members

              RG 181.88      For effective conflicts management, you should ensure that you treat clients
                             and members fairly. This does not prevent you from making a profit or
                             expecting a return (e.g. fees) in exchange for providing products and
                             services. However, you should be fair in your dealings.

              RG 181.89      You should generally avoid placing yourself in a position where there is a
                             material conflict between your own interests and the interests of your clients
                             or members. This is to minimise the risk that you may unfairly prefer your
                             own interests.

              RG 181.90      Where required by your legal obligations, you must prioritise the interests of
                             your clients or members.


                             Market integrity principles

              RG 181.91      To effectively manage a conflict, you should ensure the impact of a conflict
                             on market integrity is minimised—that is, it promotes fair, orderly and
                             transparent markets for financial products: see s760A.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission December 2025                                                  Page 25
                                                  REGULATORY GUIDE 181: AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest




Appendix: Catalogue—Key legal obligations and
information relevant to conflicts management

              RG 181.92      This appendix outlines some key legal obligations and information relevant
                             to conflicts management that may apply to you as an AFS licensee,
                             representative, or AFS licence applicant.


What is the purpose of this catalogue?
              RG 181.93      This catalogue is intended to signpost key obligations and information to
                             help you comply with the conflicts management obligation under the
                             Corporations Act. It emphasises that conflicts can arise across a wide range
                             of activities. This catalogue does not introduce new obligations or guidance.


How to use this catalogue
              RG 181.94      Whether the obligations apply to you depends on the facts and circumstances
                             of your situation. Where relevant, you must take these obligations into
                             account when complying with your conflicts management obligation. This
                             informs the adequacy of your arrangements.

              RG 181.95      The catalogue is not an exhaustive list of legal obligations and information
                             that may relate to the conflicts management obligation, other legal
                             obligations, and separate information relevant to your circumstances. This
                             catalogue avoids legal language where possible and may include some
                             generalisations about the application of the law. Some provisions have
                             exceptions or important qualifications that we have not included.

              RG 181.96      We have included the following summary information in this catalogue:
                             (a)   Key obligation: A description of required disclosures and other conflicts
                                   related obligations by AFS industry category.
                             (b)   Source: Where to find the obligation in legislation.
                             (c)   Guidance and further information: Links to relevant guidance
                                   published by regulators or other relevant documents.


Important information about the catalogue
              RG 181.97      This catalogue does not generally cover obligations in legislation not
                             administered by ASIC—that is, you may have obligations relating to
                             conflicts in other legislation that ASIC does not administer.

              RG 181.98      This catalogue does not constitute legal advice. We encourage you to seek
                             your own professional advice to find out how the relevant laws apply to you,
                             as it is your responsibility to determine your obligations.



© Australian Securities and Investments Commission December 2025                                             Page 26
                                                                                                                  REGULATORY GUIDE 181: AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest
                                                                                                                         REGULATORY GUIDE 181: AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest




Catalogue: Key obligations for AFS licensees
General AFS licensee requirements

  General licensing obligations                                    Source                                                       Relevant guidance and further information
  You must comply with your general licence obligations            Section 912A of the Corporations Act, including:             RG 1 Applying for and varying an AFS licence
  under s912A, which informs how you approach your                 › s912A(1)(a) (efficiently, honestly and fairly);
                                                                                                                                RG 166 AFS licensing: Financial requirements
  conflicts management obligation.                                 › s912A(1)(aa) (conflicts management obligation);
                                                                   › s912A(1)(c) and (ca) (compliance with financial            RG 265 Guidance on ASIC market integrity rules for
  When applying for an Australian financial services (AFS)
                                                                      services laws);                                           participants of securities markets
  licence, you must provide information on your
  arrangements to comply with your general licensing               › s912A(1)(h) (adequate risk management systems);
  obligations, including the conflicts management                     and
  obligation.                                                      › reg 7.6.03(g) (obligation to have adequate
                                                                      compliance arrangements).


 Financial products and services

  Retail client disclosure                                         Source                                                       Relevant guidance and further information
  There are specific content requirements for a Financial          Corporations Act:                                            RG 168 Product Disclosure Statements: Disclosure and
  Services Guide (FSG) and a Product Disclosure                    › s942B and 942C (obligation to disclose benefits and        other obligations
  Statement (PDS) that relate to conflicts, including                 relationships in an FSG before providing financial
                                                                                                                                RG 175 AFS licensing: Financial product advisers—
  disclosing remuneration and possible conflicts of                   services);
                                                                                                                                Conduct and disclosure
  interest.                                                        › s1013D(1)(c) (obligation to disclose information
                                                                      about significant risks of holding the product in a       RG 221 Facilitating digital financial services disclosures
                                                                      PDS);                                                     INFO 291 FAQs: FSGs and website disclosure
                                                                   › s1013D(1)(f) (obligation to disclose information           information
                                                                      about other significant characteristics or features of
                                                                      the product in a PDS); and
                                                                   › s1013E (general obligation to include other
                                                                      information that might influence a decision to
                                                                      acquire in a PDS).

                                                                   ASIC Corporations (Financial Services Guide, General
                                                                   Advice Warning and Advertising Related Relief)
                                                                   Instrument 2025/234
© Australian Securities and Investments Commission December 2025                                                                                                                      Page 27
                                                                                                                REGULATORY GUIDE 181: AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest




Personal advice

Client interests                                               Source                                                         Relevant guidance and further information
                                                               Section 961J of the Corporations Act (obligation to            RG 175 AFS licensing: Financial product advisers—
If you provide personal advice to a retail client, you must
prioritise the client’s interests over your interests or the   prioritise the client’s interests over your own or your        Conduct and disclosure
interests of your associates, unless the advice relates to a   associates’ interests).
basic banking product, a general insurance product or a
combination of these.



Conflicted remuneration                                        Source                                                         Relevant guidance and further information
Conflicted remuneration is any benefit given to an AFS         Corporations Act:                                              RG 246 Conflicted and other banned remuneration
licensee or its representatives that:                          › Div 4 of Pt 7.7A (prohibition against conflicted
                                                                                                                              INFO 292 FAQs: Informed consents for insurance
                                                                  remuneration); and
›   could reasonably be expected to influence the                                                                             commissions
                                                               › Div 5 of Pt 7.7A (other banned remuneration).
    financial product recommended or the advice
    given; or

›   relates to information on, or dealing in, a life risk
    insurance product.

As an AFS licensee or representative, you must not
accept conflicted remuneration. Product issuers and
sellers, as well as those employing AFS licensees and
their representatives, are also banned from providing it
to you.

Other forms of remuneration that may influence the
advice provided (e.g. volume-based shelf-space fees)
are also banned.

Certain insurance commissions are exempt from the ban
on conflicted remuneration. If you provide personal
advice to a retail client and gain the client’s informed
consent, the exemption applies to monetary benefits
given to you in connection with the sale or issue of
general insurance products, certain life insurance
products or consumer credit insurance.

© Australian Securities and Investments Commission December 2025                                                                                                                 Page 28
                                                                                                              REGULATORY GUIDE 181: AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest
                                                                                                                    REGULATORY GUIDE 181: AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest




Code of Ethics                                                Source
                                                              Section 921E of the Corporations Act (obligation to
If you are authorised to provide personal advice to a
retail client, you must comply with the Financial Planners    comply with Code of Ethics).
and Advisers Code of Ethics 2019, which requires you to       Financial Planners and Advisers Code of Ethics 2019 (see
avoid advising, referring, or acting where there is a         Standard 3 relating to conflicts).
conflict of interest or duty.



Statement of Advice                                           Source                                                        Relevant guidance and further information
When required, you must give a Statement of Advice            Sections 947B and 947C of the Corporations Act                RG 175 AFS licensing: Financial product advisers—
(SOA) when providing personal advice to a client. The         (obligations to disclose benefits and relationships in        Conduct and disclosure
SOA must include information about any conflicts of           SOA).
                                                                                                                            RG 221 Facilitating digital financial services disclosures
interest, such as remuneration and interests held by the
                                                              Division 3 of Pt 7.7 of the Corporations Regulations 2001
adviser or their associates, that could influence the                                                                       INFO 266 FAQs: Records of Advice (ROAs)
                                                              (SOA).
advice provided.




General advice

Research reports                                              Source                                                        Relevant guidance and further information
If you provide retail and wholesale clients with relevant     Section 912A(1)(aa) of the Corporations Act (conflicts        RG 79 Research report providers: Improving the quality
investment research (‘research report providers’), you        management obligation).                                       of investment research
must comply with the conflicts management obligation.
                                                                                                                            RG 264 Sell-side research




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission December 2025                                                                                                                Page 29
                                                                                                              REGULATORY GUIDE 181: AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest
                                                                                                                    REGULATORY GUIDE 181: AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest



Claims handling

Claims handling and settlement services                        Source                                                       Relevant guidance and further information
If you undertake claims handling and settlement                Section 912A(1)(aa) of the Corporations Act (conflicts       INFO 253 Claims handling and settling: How to comply
services, you must comply with your conflicts                  management obligation).                                      with your AFS licence obligations
management obligation. This includes managing
conflicts relating to:

›   incentives and performance metrics for claims staff
    and management;

›   remuneration agreements; and

›   profit-sharing contracts.




Superannuation

Superannuation trustees                                        Source
If you are a superannuation trustee, you must act in the       Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993:
members’ best financial interests if there is a conflict and   › s52(2)(a) (duty of trustees of registrable
ensure that:                                                      superannuation entities (RSEs) to act honestly);
                                                               › s52(2)(c) (duty of trustees of RSEs to act in members’
›   you prioritise your duties to members, and in the
                                                                  best financial interests);
    best interests of members;
                                                               › s52A(2)(c) (duty of corporate trustee directors to
›   you meet your duties to members despite the                   perform their duties and exercise their powers in
    conflict;                                                     members’ best financial interests);
›   the conflict does not adversely affect the interests of    › s52(2)(d)(i)–(iv) (e.g. duties of trustees of RSEs to
    members; and                                                  prioritise the members’ interests); and
                                                               › s52A(2)(d)(i)–(iv) (e.g. duties of corporate trustee
›   you comply with the prudential standards in relation
                                                                  directors to prioritise the members’ interests).
    to conflicts.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission December 2025                                                                                                               Page 30
                                                                                                            REGULATORY GUIDE 181: AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest
                                                                                                                  REGULATORY GUIDE 181: AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest



Retail funds management

Registered managed investment schemes                         Source                                                      Relevant guidance and further information
                                                              Chapter 5C of the Corporations Act, including:              RG 132 Funds management: Compliance and oversight
As a responsible entity (or its officer) of a registered
scheme, you must act honestly and (in a conflict) prefer      › s601FC and 601FD (duty to act in members’ best
                                                                interests and to give priority to members’ interests);    RG 133 Funds management and custodial services:
the interests of your members over your own.
                                                              › s601FC and 601FD (duty to not misuse information);        Holding assets
If you appoint an agent (e.g. an investment manager),         › s601FE (employees to not misuse information or            RG 148 Platforms that are managed investment schemes
you remain responsible for all acts and omissions of that       make improper use of their position); and                 and nominee and custody services
agent—including those matters that may give rise to a
                                                              › s601FB(2) (responsibility for agents).
conflict or potential conflict of interest.                                                                               RG 259 Risk management systems of fund operators
                                                              ASIC Corporations (Asset Holding Standards for
We have also provided specific guidance on a range of
                                                              Responsible Entities) Instrument 2024/16
matters, including:

›   holding assets, which includes addressing certain
    conflicts of interest, such as conflicts of custodial
    staff; and

›   for certain scheme types—the use of disclosure for
    relevant conflicts issues such as related-party
    transactions and conflicts in valuations.

Operators of unregistered schemes may wish to
consider the relevant guidance and further information
for registered schemes when establishing and reviewing
their conflict management arrangements.



Corporate collective investment vehicles (CCIVs)              Source                                                      Relevant guidance and further information
If you are a corporate director of a CCIV, you must           Chapter 8B of the Corporations Act, including s1224D        RG 132 Funds management: Compliance and oversight
prioritise members’ interests in a conflict and minimise      (duty to give priority to members’ interests).
                                                                                                                          RG 133 Funds management and custodial services:
conflicts of custodial staff when holding assets.
                                                              ASIC Corporations (Asset Holding Standards for              Holding assets
                                                              Responsible Entities) Instrument 2024/16
                                                                                                                          RG 259 Risk management systems of fund operators




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission December 2025                                                                                                             Page 31
                                                                                                             REGULATORY GUIDE 181: AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest
                                                                                                                   REGULATORY GUIDE 181: AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest




Crowd-sourced funding (CSF) intermediaries                    Source                                                       Relevant guidance and further information
If you are a CSF intermediary, you must comply with the       Corporations Act:                                            RG 261 Crowd-sourced funding: Guide for companies
                                                              › s912A(1)(aa) (conflicts management obligation);
conflicts management obligation and specific
                                                              › s738G and reg 6D.3A.01 (eligibility of related party       RG 262 Crowd-sourced funding: Guide for
obligations on related party transactions.
                                                                 offers); and                                              intermediaries
                                                              › s738ZK (related party transactions).


Custodial or depository services                              Source                                                       Relevant guidance and further information
If you provide a custodial or depository service, you         ASIC Corporations (Custody Standards for Providers of        RG 133 Funds management and custodial services:
                                                              Custodial and Depository Services) Instrument 2024/17        Holding assets
must:

›   segregate custodial staff (and direct and indirect
    managers) from persons performing other functions
    in a way that minimises the potential for conflicts of
    interest between their duties and other functions;
    and

›   use business structures that support minimising
    these conflicts.



Managed discretionary accounts (MDAs) and                     Source                                                       Relevant guidance and further information
investor directed portfolio services (IDPS)                   ASIC Corporations (Managed Discretionary Account             RG 179 Managed discretionary accounts
If you are an MDA provider or an operator of an IDPS          Services) Instrument 2016/968
                                                                                                                           RG 148 Platforms that are managed investment schemes
that holds custodial property, you must:                      ASIC Corporations (Investor Directed Portfolio Services)     and nominee and custody services
›   segregate custodial staff (and direct and indirect        Instrument 2023/669
    managers) from persons performing other functions
    in a way that minimises the potential for conflicts of
    interest between their duties and other functions;
    and

›   use business structures that support minimising this
    conflict.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission December 2025                                                                                                              Page 32
                                                                                                              REGULATORY GUIDE 181: AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest
                                                                                                                    REGULATORY GUIDE 181: AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest




Market supervision

Market conduct                                                Source                                                        Relevant guidance and further information
You are prohibited from certain conduct that results in       Part 7.10 of the Corporations Act, including:                 REP 331 Dark liquidity and high-frequency trading
insider trading and market manipulation of financial          › Div 3 (insider trading provisions); and
                                                                                                                            REP 486 Sell-side research and corporate advisory:
products and services. These provisions are intended to       › s1041A (market manipulation).
                                                                                                                            Confidential information and conflicts
promote investor protection and market integrity.
                                                                                                                            REP 605 Allocations in equity raising transactions
Conflicts of interest are a significant driver of, and can
result in, market misconduct.                                                                                               REP 652 Wholesale FX practices in Australia

                                                                                                                            REP 668 Allocations in debt capital market transactions

                                                                                                                            REP 741 Conduct risk in wholesale fixed income markets

                                                                                                                            REP 742 Managing conflicts of interest in wholesale
                                                                                                                            financial markets



Market Integrity Rules (Securities and Futures)               Source                                                        Relevant guidance and further information
If you are a securities or futures market participant, you    ASIC Market Integrity Rules (Securities Markets) 2017         RG 265 Guidance on ASIC market integrity rules for
must comply with the ASIC market integrity rules, which                                                                     participants of securities markets
                                                              ASIC Market Integrity Rules (Futures Markets) 2017
include those that address conflicts of interest. These
                                                                                                                            RG 266 Guidance on ASIC market integrity rules for
rules are designed to promote fair, orderly and               ASIC Market Integrity Rules (Securities Markets and
                                                                                                                            participants of futures markets
transparent markets.                                          Futures Markets) Amendment Instrument 2022/74




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission December 2025                                                                                                                 Page 33
                                                                                                             REGULATORY GUIDE 181: AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest
                                                                                                                   REGULATORY GUIDE 181: AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest




Listed entity                                                 Source                                                       Relevant guidance and further information
If you are a listed disclosing entity, you must               Sections 674 and 677 of the Corporations Act                 RG 193 Notification of directors’ interests in securities:
                                                              (continuous disclosure obligations).                         Listed companies
immediately disclose market-sensitive information to the
market operator once you are aware of it. This may            ASX Listing Rules, Rules 3.1 and 3.1A.
include disclosing relevant conflicts of interest.



ASX Listing and Operating Rules and                           Source
CBOE Operating Rules                                          Sections 793C and 1101B of the Corporations Act.
If you are a listed entity, or their associate, you must      ASX Listing Rules, including Chapter 10 and 12, which
comply with your ASX Listing and Operating Rules              include obligations relating to transactions with persons
(including AQUA rules) or Cboe Operating Rules, which         in positions of influence, key management personnel
include conflicts of interest obligations.                    and investors. See also Guidance Note 27 Trading
You must take these rules into account when complying         policies.
with your conflicts management obligation if you are:         AQUA Rules (Schedule 10A to the ASX Operating Rules)
›   a listed entity that operates a financial services        are designed for ‘open-ended’ investment schemes
    business; or                                              such as exchange traded funds (ETFs) and structured
                                                              products. It includes obligations to manage conflicts.
›   hold an AFS licence and advise or deal in relation to
    a listed entity.                                          Cboe Operating Rules, which includes obligations to
                                                              manage conflicts.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission December 2025                                                                                                                Page 34
                                                                                                             REGULATORY GUIDE 181: AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest
                                                                                                                   REGULATORY GUIDE 181: AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest



Corporate governance

Directors’ duties                                             Source
If you are a director or other relevant employee in           Part 2D.1 of the Corporations Act, including:
relation to a financial services business, you must           › s180–181 (general duties to act in good faith and
consider your:                                                   with care and diligence);
                                                              › s182–183 (obligation to not use position or
›   duties to disclose material personal interests or
                                                                 information improperly); and
    standing interests when conflicts arise; and
                                                              › s191–192 (conflicts of interest and disclosure).
›   general duties, such as acting in good faith and not
    misusing your position.



Annual disclosure                                             Source                                                       Relevant guidance and further information
                                                              Division 1 of Pt 2M.3, including:                            RG 170 Prospective financial information
If you are a company, registered managed investment
scheme, registrable superannuation entity, or disclosing      › s292 (financial and directors’ reports); and
                                                              › s299 (annual directors’ report, general information).      RG 247 Effective disclosure in an operating and financial
entity, you should consider whether you need to
                                                                                                                           review
disclose any conflicts of interest in your annual financial
report and directors’ report.



Related party transactions                                    Source                                                       Relevant guidance and further information
A related party transaction occurs when a public              Corporations Act:                                            RG 76 Related party transactions
company or registered managed investment scheme               › Div 2 of Pt 2D.1 (material personal interests); and
provides a financial benefit to a related party, such as a    › Ch 2E and Pt 5C.7 (related party transactions).
director, their spouse, or certain relatives, creating an
actual conflict of interest.

If you are a public company or responsible entity that is
a financial services business, you must obtain member
approval before providing such benefits, unless an
exception applies.

Directors who have a material personal interest may be
restricted from voting on the matter.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission December 2025                                                                                                              Page 35
                                                                                                               REGULATORY GUIDE 181: AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest
                                                                                                                     REGULATORY GUIDE 181: AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest



Fundraising

Securities transactions                                       Source                                                         Relevant guidance and further information
                                                              Chapters 2E, 5, 6, 6A, 6B, 6C, 6D of the Corporations          REP 605 Allocations in equity raising transactions
Securities transactions may raise a range of conflicts of
interest issues, including when providing corporate           Act.
                                                                                                                             REP 486 Sell-side research and corporate advisory:
advice or undertaking allocations in equity raising.
                                                                                                                             Confidential information and conflicts
If you advise or deal in securities, you should consider
how relevant conflicts may need to be effectively
managed.



Offering securities—Disclosure                                Source                                                         Relevant guidance and further information
If you advise or deal in the offer of securities, you must    Chapter 6D (fundraising provisions) of the Corporations        RG 228 Prospectuses: Effective disclosure for retail
                                                              Act, including:                                                investors
consider:
                                                              › s710 (content of a prospectus); and
›   how you can effectively manage any relevant               › s715 (content of offer information statement).               RG 254 Offering securities under a disclosure document
    conflicts; and

›   if and how you should disclose relevant conflicts in
    the relevant disclosure document.



Independent experts and expert reports                        Source                                                         Related guidance and further information
If you are engaged to provide an expert report for a          Chapters 2E, 5, 6 and 6A of the Corporations Act               RG 111 Content of expert reports
securities transaction, both you and the report must          (requirements to obtain expert reports for certain
                                                                                                                             RG 112 Independence of experts
remain independent.                                           securities transactions such as takeover bids, schemes of
                                                              arrangement, buy-backs, related party transactions, and
As an AFS licensee, you must comply with the conflicts
                                                              compulsory acquisition of shares).
management obligation when:
                                                              ASX Listing Rules, Chapters 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 13
›   providing an expert report (advising on or dealing
                                                              (expert reports required, including for transactions with
    in a financial product); or
                                                              persons in a position of influence).
›   advising or dealing in a securities transaction
    requiring an expert report.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission December 2025                                                                                                                  Page 36
                                                                                                         REGULATORY GUIDE 181: AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest
                                                                                                               REGULATORY GUIDE 181: AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest



Audit services

Audit services                                                Source                                                   Related guidance and further information
If you are a financial services business, you should          Corporations Act:                                        RG 26 Resignation, removal and replacement of auditors
ensure you procure and engage with auditors so that           › Div 3 of Pt 2M.4 (auditor independence);
                                                                                                                       RG 34 Auditor obligations: Reporting to ASIC
you comply with your conflicts management obligation          › Div 5 of Pt 2M.4 (auditor rotation for listed
and other relevant legal obligations.                            companies, listed registered schemes and              RG 187 Auditor rotation
                                                                 registrable superannuation entities); and             ASA 102 Compliance with ethical requirements when
If you are an auditor, you must comply with the
requirements associated with auditor independence             › s307C on auditors’ independence declarations in Div    performing audits, reviews and other assurance
and conflicts of interest:                                       3 of Pt 2M.3.                                         engagements

›   auditor rotation; and                                                                                              APES 110 Code of ethics for professional accountants
                                                                                                                       (including independence standards)
›   evaluating whether the provision of certain non-
    audit services, a long association between auditor                                                                 REP 817 Building trust: Auditors’ compliance with
    and audit client and/or relationships between                                                                      independence and conflict of interest obligations
    auditor and audit client, could undermine
    independence and create potential conflicts of
    interest.

Auditors must consider the potential for real and
perceived conflicts of interest.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission December 2025                                                                                                           Page 37
                                                                                                             REGULATORY GUIDE 181: AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest

                                                                                                                       REGULATORY GUIDE 181: AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest



Catalogue: Key obligations for other licensees
Australian market licensees

Market licensing obligations                                  Source                                                          Relevant guidance and further information
If you are also a market licensee, you must comply with       Parts 7.2 and 7.2A of the Corporations Act, including:          RG 172 Financial markets: Domestic and overseas
your general licensing obligations, including having          › s792A(c) (manage conflicts of interest); and                  operators
adequate arrangements to prevent conflicts from               › s798E (other potential conflict situations).
undermining market integrity.



Clearing and settlement (CS) facility licensees

CS facility licensing obligations                             Source                                                          Relevant guidance and further information

                                                              Section 821A of the Corporations Act (general licensing         RG 211 Clearing and settlement facilities: Australian and
If you are also a CS facility licensee, you must do all
things necessary to reduce systemic risk and, to the          obligations), including s821A(1)(c)(i) (adequate                overseas operators
extent reasonably practicable, have adequate                  arrangements to handle conflicts).
arrangements to handle conflicts as required by the law.



Australian credit licensees

Credit licensing obligations                                  Source                                                          Relevant guidance and further information
If you are also a credit licensee, you must comply with       National Consumer Credit Protection Act 2009:                   RG 205 Credit licensing: General conduct obligations
your general credit licensing obligations, including to       › s47 (general credit licensing obligations);
                                                                                                                              RG 209 Credit licensing: Responsible lending conduct
have in place adequate arrangements to ensure conflicts       › Ch 3 (responsible lending and disclosure
of interest do not disadvantage clients.                         obligations); and                                            RG 273 Mortgage brokers: Best interests duty
                                                              › Pt 3.5A (applicable to mortgage brokers and                   INFO 134 Complying with your obligations if both credit
If you are a mortgage broker, you must also ensure that
you comply with:                                                 mortgage intermediaries), including Div 2 (including         licensee and AFS licensee
                                                                 obligations to prioritise the consumers’ interests) and
›   the duty to prioritise the consumers’ interests when         Div 4 (conflicted remuneration obligations).                 INFO 146 Responsible lending disclosure obligations:
    providing credit assistance; and                                                                                          Overview for credit licensees and representatives

›   prohibitions on conflicted remuneration.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission December 2025                                                                                                                  Page 38
                                                                                                            REGULATORY GUIDE 181: AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest
                                                                                                                  REGULATORY GUIDE 181: AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest



Entities regulated by the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (APRA)

APRA Prudential Standards                                     Source
If you are also an APRA-regulated entity, you must            CPS 510 Governance (obligations related to
comply with your licensing and prudential obligations,        independence) and SPS 510 Governance (conflicts of
including those that are relevant to managing conflicts       interest and governance of an RSE licensee);
of interest.
                                                              CPS 511 Remuneration (obligations related to mitigating
                                                              conflicts in remuneration arrangements);

                                                              CPS 220 Risk management;

                                                              CPS 520 Fit and proper; and

                                                              SPS 521 Conflicts of interest (conflicts of interest and
                                                              requirements relating to the management of conflicts by
                                                              an RSE licensee.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission December 2025                                                                                                             Page 39
                                                      REGULATORY GUIDE 181: AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest




Key terms


                              Term                          Meaning in this document

                              AFS licence                   An Australian financial services licence under s913B of
                                                            the Corporations Act that authorises a person who carries
                                                            on a financial services business to provide financial
                                                            services
                                                              Note: This is a definition in s9.

                              AFS licensee (or              A person who holds an AFS licence
                              licensee)                       Note: This is a definition in s9.

                              APRA                          Australian Prudential Regulation Authority

                              ASIC                          Australian Securities and Investments Commission

                              ASIC v Avestra                Australian Securities and Investments Commission v
                                                            Avestra Asset Management Limited (In Liquidation)
                                                            (2017) 348 ALR 525

                              conflicts of interest         See RG 181.29–RG 181.34

                              conflicts management          The obligation in s912A(1)(aa) to have in place adequate
                              obligation                    arrangements for managing conflicts of interest

                              Corporations Act              Corporations Act 2001, including regulations made for the
                                                            purposes of that Act

                              credit licensee               A person who holds an Australian credit licence under
                                                            s35 of the National Consumer Credit Protection Act 2009

                              CS facility                   A clearing and settlement facility as defined in s768A of
                                                            the Corporations Act

                              CS facility licensee          A person who holds an Australian CS facility licence
                                                              Note: This is a definition in s768A of the Corporations Act.

                              CSF intermediary              An AFS licensee whose licence expressly authorises the
                                                            licensee to provide a crowd-funding service
                                                              Note: See s738C of the Corporations Act.

                              Explanatory                   Explanatory Memorandum to the Corporate Law
                              Memorandum                    Economic Reform Program (Audit Reform and Corporate
                                                            Disclosure) Bill 2003




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission December 2025                                                       Page 40
                                                   REGULATORY GUIDE 181: AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest




                              Term                       Meaning in this document

                              financial product          Generally, a facility through which, or through the
                                                         acquisition of which, a person does one or more of the
                                                         following:
                                                          makes a financial investment (see s763B);
                                                          manages financial risk (see s763C); and/or
                                                          makes non-cash payments (see s763D)
                                                           Note: See Div 3 of Pt 7.1 of the Corporations Act for the exact
                                                           definition. In addition to the general categories above, this
                                                           specifies certain things as being included or excluded from the
                                                           definition.

                              financial product          A recommendation or a statement of opinion, or a report
                              advice                     of any of those things, that:
                                                          is intended to influence a person or persons in making
                                                           a decision about a particular financial product or class
                                                           of financial products, or an interest in a particular
                                                           financial product or class of financial products; or
                                                          could reasonably be regarded as being intended to
                                                           have such an influence

                                                         This does not include anything in an exempt document or
                                                         statement.
                                                           Note: This is a definition in s766B of the Corporations Act.

                              financial service          Has the meaning given in Div 4 of Pt 7.1 of the
                                                         Corporations Act

                              financial services         Has the meaning set out in s761A of the Corporations Act
                              laws

                              INFO 151 (for              An ASIC information sheet (in this example numbered
                              example)                   151)

                              market licensee            The holder of an Australian market licence
                                                           Note: This is a definition in s9 of the Corporations Act.

                              representative             Means:
                                                          an authorised representative of the licensee;
                                                          an employee or director of the licensee;
                                                          an employee or director of a related body corporate of
                                                           the licensee; or
                                                          any other person acting on behalf of the licensee
                                                           Note: This is a definition contained in s9 of the Corporations
                                                           Act.

                              retail client              A client as defined in s761G and 761GA of the
                                                         Corporations Act and Div 2 of Pt 7.1 of the Corporations
                                                         Regulations 2001

                              RG 78 (for example)        An ASIC regulatory guide (in this example numbered 78)

                              target market              The class of consumers described in the target market
                                                         determination for the product under s994B(5)(b) of the
                                                         Corporations Act




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission December 2025                                                       Page 41
                                                  REGULATORY GUIDE 181: AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest




Related information

                             Headnotes

                             conflicts of interest; conflicts; internal controls; information barriers;
                             conflicts management; disclosure; avoiding; managing conflicts; adequate
                             arrangements


                             Regulatory guides

                             RG 36 Licensing: Financial product advice and dealing

                             RG 78 Breach reporting by AFS licensees and credit licensees

                             RG 79 Research report providers: Improving the quality of investment
                             research

                             RG 104 AFS licensing: Meeting the general obligations

                             RG 105 AFS licensing: Organisational competence

                             RG 166 AFS licensing: Financial requirements

                             RG 175 AFS licensing: Financial product advisers—Conduct and disclosure

                             RG 246 Conflicted and other banned remuneration


                             Legislation

                             Corporations Act 2001, s9, 601FC, 760A, 912A(1)(aa), 912A(1),
                             912A(1)(a), 912A(1)(c), 912A(1)(ca), 941A, 941B, 946A

                             Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993, s52(2)(d)


                             Cases

                             Australian Securities and Investments Commission v Avestra Asset
                             Management Limited (In Liquidation) (2017) 348 ALR 525

                             Australian Securities and Investments Commission v Westpac Banking
                             Corporation (No 2) (2018) 357 ALR 240

                             Australian Securities and Investments Commission v Westpac Banking
                             Corporation (Penalty Hearing) [2024] FCA 52




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission December 2025                                             Page 42
