SOURCE: https://download.asic.gov.au/media/qxcoijea/rg277-published-09-september-2022-20260421.pdf
FINAL URL: https://download.asic.gov.au/media/qxcoijea/rg277-published-09-september-2022-20260421.pdf
FETCHED: 2026-10-08

REGULATORY GUIDE 277

Consumer remediation

September 2022




About this guide
This guide sets out our guidance on consumer remediation conducted by:
   Australian financial services (AFS) licensees; and
   Australian credit licensees (credit licensees).

This guide comes into effect on the date of publication (i.e. 27 September
2022). For remediations initiated before the date of publication, Regulatory
Guide 256 Client review and remediation conducted by advice licensees
(RG 256) applies.

This guide may be read in conjunction with Making it right: How to run a
consumer-centred remediation.
                                                                    REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




                                 About ASIC regulatory documents

                                 In administering legislation ASIC issues the following types of regulatory
                                 documents.
                                 Consultation papers: seek feedback from stakeholders on matters ASIC
                                 is considering, such as proposed relief or proposed regulatory guidance.
                                 Regulatory guides: give guidance to regulated entities by:
                                     explaining when and how ASIC will exercise specific powers under
                                      legislation (primarily the Corporations Act)
                                     explaining how ASIC interprets the law
                                     describing the principles underlying ASIC’s approach
                                     giving practical guidance (e.g. describing the steps of a process such
                                      as applying for a licence or giving practical examples of how
                                      regulated entities may decide to meet their obligations).
                                 Information sheets: provide concise guidance on a specific process or
                                 compliance issue or an overview of detailed guidance.
                                 Reports: describe ASIC compliance or relief activity or the results of a
                                 research project.



                             Document history
                             This guide was issued in September 2022 and is based on legislation and
                             regulations as at the date of issue. In October 2024, we updated references
                             to Class Order [CO 14/923] Record-keeping obligations for Australian
                             financial services licensees when giving personal advice to ASIC
                             Corporations (Record-Keeping Requirements for Australian Financial
                             Services Licensees when Giving Personal Advice) Instrument 2024/508, and
                             updated information on AFCA’s systemic issues role and the CSLR in
                             RG 277.243 and RG 277.287, respectively. We also made further minor
                             updates to remove out-of-date information and to reflect current style and
                             drafting practices. In April 2026, we made amendments to reflect updated
                             Regulatory Guide 181 AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest (RG
                             181).

                             Previous versions:
                                    Regulatory Guide 256 Client review and remediation conducted by
                                     advice licensees, issued September 2016.


                             Disclaimer
                             This guide does not constitute legal advice. We encourage you to seek your
                             own professional advice to find out how the Corporations Act, ASIC Act,
                             National Credit Act and other applicable laws apply to you, as it is your
                             responsibility to determine your obligations.

                             Examples in this guide are purely for illustration; they are not exhaustive and
                             are not intended to impose or imply particular rules or requirements.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                        Page 2
                                                                                 REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




Contents

                             A      Overview ........................................................................................... 4
                                    The need for proactive, effective remediation ................................... 4
                                    Who this guide applies to and when it applies................................... 5
                                    Purpose of this guide ......................................................................... 6
                                    Overview of the framework for conducting a remediation ................. 7
                             B      Proactively initiating remediations .............................................. 10
                                    When a remediation must be initiated ............................................. 10
                                    Identifying misconduct or other failures ........................................... 13
                                    Scalability of the remediation process ............................................. 14
                             C      Nine principles for conducting a remediation ............................ 15
                             D      Scoping the misconduct or other failure .................................... 18
                                    Accessing evidence, records and data ............................................ 18
                                    Investigating the nature and cause of misconduct or other failure .. 19
                                    Investigating the full extent of misconduct or other failure .............. 19
                                    Determining the remediation review period ..................................... 21
                                    Identifying affected consumers ........................................................ 22
                                    Reviewing and testing the scope ..................................................... 23
                             E      Determining an appropriate outcome .......................................... 25
                                    Returning consumers to the position they would have been in ....... 25
                                    Determining monetary and non-monetary remedies ....................... 27
                             F      Methodologies for determining the scope and appropriate
                                    outcome .......................................................................................... 42
                                    Conducting file reviews .................................................................... 42
                                    Using assumptions in a remediation ................................................ 43
                                    Segmenting and triaging consumers ............................................... 51
                             G      Delivering an appropriate outcome ............................................. 53
                                    Communicating with consumers ...................................................... 53
                                    Applying ‘reasonable endeavours’ to making remediation payments 54
                                    Interactions with dispute resolution systems ................................... 60
                                    Dealing with money that cannot be returned to consumers ............ 63
                                    Settlement deeds ............................................................................. 65
                             H      Resourcing, governance and accountability .............................. 66
                                    Allocating adequate resources ........................................................ 66
                                    Governance and accountability arrangements ................................ 67
                                    Documenting the remediation and justifying decisions ................... 71
                                    Reporting publicly ............................................................................ 71
                             I      Engaging with external organisations ......................................... 73
                                    Australian Financial Complaints Authority ....................................... 73
                                    Australian Taxation Office................................................................ 74
                                    Australian Prudential Regulation Authority ...................................... 74
                                    Other external organisations............................................................ 75
                             J      Our role in remediations ............................................................... 76
                                    How ASIC may become involved in a remediation.......................... 76
                                    ASIC public statements ................................................................... 78
                             Appendix: Interaction with licensing obligations and other laws .... 79
                             Key terms ............................................................................................... 88
                             Related information ............................................................................... 92



© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                                                     Page 3
                                                                         REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




A          Overview


                              Key points

                              For the Australian financial system to operate effectively, and for
                              consumers to engage with trust and confidence, licensees that engage in
                              misconduct or other failures when providing financial services or credit
                              activities, and cause consumer loss as a result, must initiate a remediation.

                              Licensees must have adequate systems and processes in place to ensure
                              that misconduct or other failures are identified when they occur, and to
                              protect and compensate consumers for the loss suffered as a result.

                              This guide sets out our guidance for remediations conducted by all
                              licensees within the Australian financial system.
                                   Note: For the meaning of ‘licensee’ in this guide, see RG 277.5–RG 277.6.




The need for proactive, effective remediation
              RG 277.1       For our financial system to operate effectively, and for consumers to engage
                             with trust and confidence, misconduct or other failures that cause consumer
                             loss must be proactively remediated by the licensee. Proactive remediation is
                             critical because very often a consumer of financial products or services will
                             not be aware (nor have any reasonable way to be aware) that they have
                             suffered loss as a result of a licensee’s misconduct or other failure.

                                   Note: For a description of ‘misconduct or other failure’, see Section B.

              RG 277.2       Remediation means a process large or small to:
                             (a)   investigate the scope of the misconduct or other failure; and
                             (b)   if appropriate, return consumers who have suffered loss as a result of
                                   the misconduct or other failure to the position they would have
                                   otherwise been in, as closely as possible. This could be by way of
                                   monetary or non-monetary remedies, or a combination of both.

              RG 277.3       Licensees must have adequate systems and processes in place to ensure that
                             misconduct or other failures are identified when they occur, and to protect
                             and compensate consumers for the loss suffered as a result. Whether a
                             licensee promptly initiates and effectively conducts a remediation on
                             discovery of the misconduct or other failure is an important aspect of a good
                             corporate culture. It is also a key indicator of whether the licensee is meeting
                             its licensing obligations.

              RG 277.4       The remediation framework described in this guide is underpinned by the
                             general obligation on Australian financial services (AFS) licensees and



© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                              Page 4
                                                                    REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




                             Australian credit licensees (credit licensees) to do all things necessary to
                             ensure that the financial services or credit activities covered by the licence
                             are provided efficiently, honestly and fairly: see s912A(1)(a) of the
                             Corporations Act 2001 (Corporations Act) and s47(1)(a) of the National
                             Consumer Credit Protection Act 2009 (National Credit Act). Complying
                             with this ongoing obligation includes licensees taking responsibility for the
                             consequences of their misconduct or other failures, and remediating
                             consumers who have suffered loss as a result. AFS licensees and credit
                             licensees must also have compensation arrangements in place: see s912B of
                             the Corporations Act and s48 of the National Credit Act.



Who this guide applies to and when it applies

                             Who this guide is for

              RG 277.5       This guide applies to:
                             (a)   AFS licensees, including limited AFS licence holders; and
                             (b)   credit licensees.

              RG 277.6       For the avoidance of doubt, this guide also applies to the following entities:
                             (a)   superannuation trustees—from 1 July 2021, all superannuation trustees
                                   (other than self-managed superannuation funds) must hold an AFS
                                   licence with authorisations to deal in superannuation interests and to
                                   provide a superannuation trustee service;
                             (b)   retirement savings account (RSA) providers—this guide applies to the
                                   extent the RSA provider provides a financial service within the meaning
                                   of s766A of the Corporations Act, including if the RSA provider deals
                                   in an RSA (see 764(1)(h) of the Corporations Act), unless an exemption
                                   applies;
                             (c)   providers of debt management services—from 1 July 2021, subject to
                                   transitional arrangements, providers of debt management services must
                                   hold a credit licence with an authorisation that covers debt management
                                   services; and
                             (d)   providers of claims handling and settling services—from 1 January
                                   2022, those entities that carry on a business in Australia of providing
                                   claims handling and settling services and belong to certain prescribed
                                   categories must hold an AFS licence with authorisations to provide such
                                   services, or be authorised by a person who holds a claims handling
                                   authorisation, unless an exemption applies.

              RG 277.7       This guide can also be used as good practice guidance by entities that
                             provide financial products or services (or engage in credit activities) to retail
                             consumers under the financial services or credit legislation, but who are not



© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                       Page 5
                                                                         REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




                             licensed under the Corporations Act, the National Credit Act or the
                             Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993 (SIS Act). This includes
                             entities that are required to have a dispute resolution system consisting of an
                             internal dispute resolution (IDR) procedure and membership of the
                             Australian Financial Complaints Authority scheme (AFCA).


                             When this guide applies

              RG 277.8       This guide applies to all licensees conducting remediations initiated on or
                             after the date of issue of this guide (i.e. 27 September 2022). For
                             remediations that were initiated before 27 September 2022, Regulatory
                             Guide 256 Client review and remediation conducted by advice licensees
                             (RG 256) continues to apply.

                                   Note: In this guide, a remediation is ‘initiated’ when a licensee makes the decision to
                                   address misconduct or other failure and starts a remediation process. If misconduct or
                                   other failures have been identified but the remediation has not started (e.g. the
                                   remediation is sitting in a backlog, queue or similar) then the remediation has not been
                                   ‘initiated’.

              RG 277.9       A licensee may choose to apply new concepts or methodologies included in
                             this guide to remediations that pre-date the issue of this guide. However, it is
                             important that licensees do not pick and choose elements to preference their
                             interests over ensuring fair and timely outcomes for consumers.



Purpose of this guide
              RG 277.10      To help licensees proactively and effectively conduct remediations, this
                             guide:
                             (a)   aims to provide a streamlined and clear consumer-centred remediation
                                   framework for licensees to apply; and
                             (b)   sets out nine key principles for conducting a remediation efficiently,
                                   honestly and fairly, in line with the general licensing obligations.

              RG 277.11      This guide primarily concerns remediations of retail consumers. However, in
                             some situations, it may be appropriate to include other types of consumers
                             (e.g. wholesale clients) within the scope of the remediation. Licensees
                             should make this assessment on a case-by-case basis.

              RG 277.12      Applying this guidance will ultimately improve outcomes for consumers
                             who are owed money, and will also benefit licensees by:
                             (a)   promoting trust;
                             (b)   reducing the costs of external dispute resolution, or individual or class
                                   actions; and
                             (c)   not having to ‘re-do’ remediations in the future.



© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                                     Page 6
                                                                       REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




                             Scalability of the remediation process

              RG 277.13      This guide is not intended to apply in its entirety to all remediations. If the
                             misconduct or other failure only affects one or a small number of consumers
                             and the cause is isolated in nature, the process a licensee follows will likely
                             use existing resources, be simple and prompt, and not require a full
                             ‘program’ to be initiated.

              RG 277.14      While it is still necessary to return those consumers to the position they
                             would have otherwise been in, parts of this guide are likely to not apply or
                             will not be relevant (e.g. using assumptions and finding lost consumers).

                                   Note: For more information on scalability, see RG 277.36–RG 277.39.


                             Interaction with other remediation guidance and laws

              RG 277.15      This guide is designed to apply to all licensees. While the guidance is
                             occasionally tailored for specific licensees or sectors within the financial
                             system, it will not always take into account specific legislative requirements,
                             business structures, contractual arrangements, constitutions or trust deeds
                             unique to particular licensees or types of misconduct or other failures.

              RG 277.16      To the extent that other laws or legal duties conflict with this guide, the
                             former will prevail. For further information about other legislative
                             requirements and consumer remediation, see the appendix to this guide.

              RG 277.17      We have issued other specific guidance that is relevant to remediating
                             consumers, including:
                             (a)   Regulatory Guide 94 Unit pricing: Guide to good practice (RG 94);
                             (b)   Information Sheet 232 Fees for no service: Remediation (INFO 232); and
                             (c)   Information Sheet 259 Complying with the notify, investigate and
                                   remediate obligations (INFO 259).

              RG 277.18      These documents provide more detail about how to conduct a remediation in
                             particular circumstances and should be read in conjunction with this guide,
                             where relevant. Further guidance may be issued in the future, and any such
                             guidance should also be read with this guide.

                                   Note: When there are conflicts between RG 94 and this guidance, RG 94 will prevail.




Overview of the framework for conducting a remediation
              RG 277.19      In this guide, we have described the framework for conducting a
                             remediation. While every remediation will be different, a remediation will
                             generally involve:
                             (a)   proactively initiating a remediation (see Section B);



© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                                 Page 7
                                                                     REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




                             (b)   conducting the remediation, which includes:
                                   (i)     adopting a process that is efficient, honest and fair, taking into
                                           account the nine key principles for conducting a remediation (see
                                           Section C);
                                   (ii)    scoping the misconduct or other failure, including identifying when
                                           it first began and who has been affected (see Section D);
                                   (iii)   determining appropriate outcomes, which may include monetary
                                           and/or non-monetary remedies (see Section E);
                                   (iv)    deciding the methodology for determining the scope and
                                           appropriate outcomes, such as data analyses, file reviews and/or
                                           the use of assumptions (see Section F);
                                   (v)     delivering outcomes with timely and effective communication,
                                           making reasonable endeavours, managing the interactions between
                                           remediation, IDR and AFCA, and when closing the remediation
                                           ensuring no profit is retained (see Section G);
                             (c)   ensuring that:
                                   (i)     remediations are adequately resourced;
                                   (i)     appropriate governance arrangements are in place;
                                   (ii)    proper records are kept; and
                                   (iii)   where appropriate, the licensee reports publicly on the remediation
                                           (see Section H); and
                             (d)   engaging with external organisations, such as AFCA, the Australian
                                   Taxation Office (ATO), the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority
                                   (APRA), and other external organisations (see Section I).

              RG 277.20      Figure 1 provides a high-level overview of the remediation process. Some
                             stages of the remediation will occur consecutively and others concurrently.
                             Licensees may need to revisit the stages if new information arises, or if the
                             remediation is not working as expected. In larger remediations, licensees
                             may also consider triaging groups so that ‘easier’ cohorts, or those cohorts
                             that may be experiencing financial difficulty, are addressed first. For smaller
                             remediations and licensees, not all processes described in the remediation
                             framework will be relevant.

              RG 277.21      Licensees should also be aware of how the remediation interacts with other
                             obligations: see the appendix to this guide. For example, some licensees
                             must consider the specific requirements under the notify, investigate and
                             remediate obligations described in INFO 259. In doing so, the licensee must
                             also consider this guide and the broader remediation framework when
                             conducting the remediation.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                         Page 8
                                                                             REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




Figure 1: Overview of the general process for conducting a remediation


      See Section B

    Proactively determine if a remediation must be initiated—Has the licensee engaged in
    ‘misconduct or other failure’ that has caused, or may have caused, consumer loss?



      See Section C

    Consider the nine principles for conducting a remediation to ensure that the process is efficient,
    honest and fair.


      See Section D

    Scope the ‘misconduct or other failure’ by identifying:
     • the nature, cause and full extent of the misconduct or other failure;
     • the remediation review period (i.e. the length of time that consumers have been affected); and
     • the number of consumers affected and who they are.


      See Section E

    Determine an appropriate outcome that returns affected consumers to the position they would
    have otherwise been in had the ‘misconduct or other failure’ not occurred. This may be a
    monetary remedy, a non-monetary remedy, or both.


      See Section F

    Methodologies for scoping and determining outcomes may include:
      • conducting data analyses and file reviews, or developing assumptions that are beneficial
        to consumers (e.g. when records are missing or for efficiency); and
      • deciding if there are ‘consumer cohorts’ that should be segmented or triaged
        (e.g. vulnerable consumers).


      See Section G

    Deliver an appropriate outcome through:
      • timely and effective communication;
      • making reasonable endeavours;
      • managing the interaction with IDR and AFCA; and
      • ensuring that no profit is retained.


Note 1: If the misconduct or other failure only affects one or a small number of consumers and the cause is isolated in nature,
the process is likely to be simple and prompt, and not require a full remediation ‘program’ to be initiated.
Note 2: A remediation may interact with other obligations, such as IDR and breach reporting obligations.
Note 3: Licensees should learn from and adapt the remediation when new information becomes available or when something is
not working as expected.
Note 4: For detailed guidance about the process in this figure, see Sections B–G (accessible version).




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                                         Page 9
                                                                    REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




B          Proactively initiating remediations


                              Key points

                              Licensees that engage in misconduct or other failures when providing
                              financial services or credit activities and cause consumer loss must initiate
                              a remediation: see RG 277.22–RG 277.29.

                              Licensees should have and maintain adequate systems and processes to
                              identify misconduct or other failures when they arise: see RG 277.31–
                              RG 277.35.

                              The processes a licensee should apply to any remediation will depend on
                              the scale, age and complexity of the underlying misconduct or other failure:
                              see RG 277.36–RG 277.39.




When a remediation must be initiated
              RG 277.22      A remediation must be initiated if a licensee has engaged in misconduct or
                             other failure when providing financial services or credit activities, and the
                             misconduct or other failure has caused, or may have caused, consumer loss.

              RG 277.23      ‘Misconduct or other failure’ includes decisions, omissions or behaviours of
                             a licensee, as well as those of:
                             (a)   a current or former representative of a licensee;
                             (b)   a current or former third-party service or product provider of a licensee;
                             (c)   a consultant engaged by a licensee; or
                             (d)   other significant related entities of a licensee.

              RG 277.24      A licensee should initiate the remediation promptly when it becomes aware
                             of the misconduct or other failure, rather than wait for a consumer to make a
                             complaint or until proceedings are issued against the licensee.

              RG 277.25      The types of ‘misconduct or other failure’ causing consumer loss that a
                             licensee must remediate include:
                             (a)   a breach of financial services laws or credit legislation;
                             (b)   a contractual failing;
                             (c)   conduct constituting negligence or fraud under common law; or
                             (d)   a failure to meet or comply with other applicable regulatory
                                   requirements.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                      Page 10
                                                                         REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




              RG 277.26      For the avoidance of doubt, ‘misconduct or other failure’ also includes
                             conduct causing loss that can be characterised as:
                             (a)   system failures that result in consumers being delivered products or
                                   services that are different from what was agreed or promised;
                             (b)   errors in pricing algorithms that result in the miscalculation of fees or
                                   interest rates, or failures to apply rebates, discounts or benefits; or
                             (c)   failures or errors due to inadequate internal processes, systems or
                                   external events that result in an outcome that differs from the promised
                                   outcome.

              RG 277.27      Breaches of an industry code of conduct may also constitute a breach of
                             financial services law, credit legislation or contract. Misrepresentations
                             about compliance with codes may also result in a contravention of the
                             Australian Securities and Investments Commission Act 2001 (ASIC Act)
                             and/or the prohibited conduct provisions of Pt 7.10 of the Corporations Act
                             or Pt 2 of the National Credit Act. If such a breach or misrepresentation
                             causes consumer loss, a remediation must be initiated.

              RG 277.28      The types of ‘misconduct or other failure’ causing consumer loss are not
                             limited to reportable situations as defined under s912DAA of the
                             Corporations Act or s50B of the National Credit Act. This is because some
                             misconduct or other failures may be excluded by operation of the
                             Corporations Regulations 2001 (Corporations Regulations), the National
                             Consumer Credit Protection Regulations 2010 (National Credit
                             Regulations), or the significance test. It is expected that the licensee will
                             address any consumer loss suffered as a result, regardless of whether it is
                             reportable to ASIC or not.

                                   Note: If the misconduct or other failure constitutes a reportable situation and has caused
                                   or will cause loss or damage, it may trigger obligations for certain licensees to notify,
                                   investigate and remediate: see RG 277.310–RG 277.314.

              RG 277.29      The financial services regulatory framework in which licensees operate
                             covers a wide range of consumer protections. These protections, including
                             those under contract, are broad. Licensees should focus on ensuring good
                             consumer outcomes, and not take an overly technical or legalistic approach
                             when identifying misconduct or other failures in need of remediation.

                                   Note: The primary pieces of Commonwealth legislation under the financial services
                                   regulatory framework include, among others, the ASIC Act, the Corporations Act, the
                                   National Credit Act (which also includes the National Credit Code), the SIS Act, the
                                   Insurance Contracts Act 1984 (Insurance Contracts Act), the Insurance Act 1973
                                   (Insurance Act) and the Life Insurance Act 1995 (Life Insurance Act).

              RG 277.30      Example 1 and Example 2 set out circumstances for initiating remediations.

                                   Note: The examples in this guide are purely for illustration. They are not exhaustive and
                                   are not intended to impose or imply particular rules or requirements.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                                    Page 11
                                                                    REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




                              Example 1: Failure to initiate a remediation

                              Every year, Vasey Insure Pty Ltd (Vasey) asked customers to inform them
                              if any changes had been made to their insured asset. The information
                              related to a factor that Vasey’s premium guide had identified as a pricing
                              factor.

                              Due to a systems error, Vasey failed to take into account the information
                              that customers had provided relevant to their risk through a particular
                              distribution channel. As a result, some customers were undercharged or
                              overcharged premiums.

                              Following a review, Vasey decided not to initiate a remediation for
                              potentially affected consumers because they considered the circumstances
                              were not reportable to ASIC under the Corporations Act.

                              Commentary

                              The licensee should have initiated a remediation to investigate and
                              compensate all those affected by the overcharged premiums. The
                              remediation should not have been contingent on whether it was a
                              reportable situation, but whether the misconduct or other failure resulted in
                              consumer loss.


                              Example 2: Proactive initiation of a remediation

                              XYZ Loans Pty Ltd (XYZ) is a medium-sized credit repair business that
                              provides debt management services to retail consumers. When conducting
                              their annual compliance review, XYZ discovered a number of staff
                              members had made misleading representations to clients. Staff
                              represented that XYZ would be able to remove negative listings from the
                              client’s credit file when in fact the client had no defaults on loans or other
                              credit infringements listed on their credit file. On other occasions, some
                              staff took payment for their debt management services in circumstances
                              where XYZ was unable to assist the consumer.

                              XYZ reported the likely breach to ASIC. It initiated a remediation to
                              investigate the misconduct and sales practices of its employees, and to
                              compensate clients who did not receive the service they expected (with
                              reference to their stated purpose for engaging the services).

                              Commentary

                              It was appropriate for XYZ to initiate the remediation for all affected clients
                              after discovering the misconduct. It would not be appropriate for XYZ to
                              only remediate clients who complained, or to wait for ASIC or AFCA to
                              raise the issue.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                      Page 12
                                                                         REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




Identifying misconduct or other failures
              RG 277.31      Licensees should have and maintain adequate systems and processes to
                             identify misconduct or other failures that have or may have led to consumer
                             loss.

                                   Note: A failure to have and maintain adequate systems and processes to deliver a product
                                   or service as promised, or to have a proper control environment or systems for identifying
                                   and reporting issues, may be a breach of s912A(1)(a) of the Corporations Act. This is
                                   broadly consistent with the observations of Justice Beach in Australian Securities and
                                   Investments Commission v Commonwealth Bank of Australia [2020] FCA 790.

              RG 277.32      Misconduct or other failures may be identified through a number of different
                             channels, including (but not limited to):
                             (a)   through a single complaint that suggests an issue might have caused
                                   detriment to other consumers who have not yet complained;
                                   Note: If the misconduct or other failure only affects one consumer and that consumer
                                   has made an IDR complaint, then the IDR requirements and guidance under Regulatory
                                   Guide 271 Internal dispute resolution (RG 271) and ASIC Corporations, Credit and
                                   Superannuation (Internal Dispute Resolution) Instrument 2020/98 apply. If an
                                   investigation confirms that a systemic issue exists, licensees should initiate and conduct
                                   a remediation in line with this guidance.

                             (b)   by analysing trends in complaints made through IDR processes;
                             (c)   through a whistleblower complaint;
                             (d)   from a licensee’s compliance checks or audits, including file reviews, or
                                   a licensee’s breach reporting systems and processes;
                             (e)   by proactively monitoring and analysing data and trends that might
                                   show anomalies in services or product provision; or
                             (f)   following discussions, referrals or directions from ASIC or AFCA,
                                   other regulators such as APRA, or a code monitoring body.
                                   Note: A licensee must not wait for AFCA, or regulators such as ASIC, to direct or
                                   request it to take action to address the consumer loss.

              RG 277.33      Licensees subject to design and distribution obligations must also monitor
                             consumer outcomes and review products to ensure that consumers are
                             receiving products that are likely to be consistent with their likely objectives,
                             financial situation and needs.
                                   Note: See Regulatory Guide 274 Product design and distribution obligations (RG 274).

              RG 277.34      It is important that licensees have the flexibility in their remediation
                             practices to quickly identify and respond to new and emerging harms, as
                             products develop and new technology is introduced.

              RG 277.35      Timely identification of misconduct or other failures will improve the
                             overall efficiency of the remediation process, as it will minimise the
                             instances of absent records or lost customers that are typical when
                             remediating historic misconduct.



© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                                    Page 13
                                                                        REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




Scalability of the remediation process
              RG 277.36      The processes a licensee should apply to any remediation will depend on the
                             scale, age and complexity of the underlying misconduct or other failure, and
                             therefore what steps need to be taken to return consumers to the position
                             they would have otherwise been in. If the misconduct or other failure only
                             affects one or a small number of consumers and the cause is isolated in
                             nature, the process is likely to be simple and prompt and not require a full
                             remediation ‘program’ to be initiated.

              RG 277.37      For example, licensees can choose to use existing incident management,
                             compliance or IDR processes and resources if the misconduct or other failure
                             affects only a small number of consumers. While it is still necessary to
                             return those consumers to the position they would have otherwise been in,
                             parts of this guidance are likely to not apply or will not be relevant (e.g.
                             using assumptions and finding lost customers).

              RG 277.38      It is up to licensees to decide their own thresholds for when a remediation
                             becomes a ‘program’ and when it can be effectively dealt with through other
                             processes. For example, in relation to advice licensees, the thresholds
                             considered may include the number of clients affected, the number of
                             advisers involved, and the nature of the misconduct or other failure.

                                   Note: If the misconduct or other failure only affects one consumer and that consumer
                                   has made an IDR complaint, then the IDR requirements and guidance under RG 271
                                   and ASIC Instrument 2020/98 apply.

              RG 277.39      While the remediation process itself may be scalable, regardless of the size
                             of the licensee when misconduct or other failures are discovered, a
                             remediation must be initiated.

                              Example 3: Small-scale remediations

                              A small-sized advice licensee Brown & Co Advisers (Brown & Co)
                              discovered, after receiving a complaint from one of its clients, that one of its
                              advisers had been giving inappropriate advice to acquire a margin lending
                              facility. Brown & Co suspects it may be a systemic issue and allocates the
                              matter to a compliance officer. The compliance officer conducts a file
                              review, determines that the adviser had given inappropriate advice to five
                              clients, and makes appropriate compensation offers.

                              Commentary

                              It was appropriate for the licensee to conduct the remediation using its
                              existing compliance resources. Brown & Co was able to review each file
                              and return affected clients to the position they would have otherwise been
                              in, without using any assumptions. Given that only one adviser was
                              involved and a small number of clients were affected, no additional
                              resources were necessary.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                                 Page 14
                                                                    REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




C          Nine principles for conducting a remediation


                              Key points

                              When conducting a remediation, licensees should adopt a process that is
                              efficient, honest and fair, taking into account the nine principles described
                              in Table 1. Adopting the nine principles in this guide will help achieve fair
                              and timely outcomes for all affected consumers.


Table 1:     The nine principles for conducting a remediation

 Principle                               Description

 1    Return affected consumers          The guiding principle of any remediation is to return affected
      as closely as possible to the      consumers, as closely as possible, to the position they would have
      position they would have           otherwise been in had the misconduct or other failure not occurred. This
      otherwise been in had the          should be the aim regardless of scale or complexity, and generally
      misconduct or other failure        underpin remediation decision making.
      not occurred
                                         There are rare situations where it would not be appropriate or possible
                                         to return a consumer to the position they would have otherwise been in:
                                         see RG 277.61–RG 277.63 for further information.

 2    Understand the nature,             Licensees should aim to identify all consumers who have or may have
      extent and impact of the           suffered loss as a result of the misconduct or other failure. Licensees
      misconduct or other failure        will need to understand the nature, extent and impact, including
                                         undertaking a root cause analysis: see RG 277.45–RG 277.48.

                                         By understanding the nature, root cause and extent of the misconduct
                                         or other failure, licensees should be able to determine when they
                                         reasonably suspect the misconduct or other failure first occurred and
                                         caused loss to a consumer: see RG 277.49–RG 277.53.

                                         If the licensee is identifying and remediating misconduct or other
                                         failures promptly, rarely should the remediation review period exceed
                                         record retention requirements.

 3    Give consumers the benefit         In some remediations, in order to save time and program costs,
      of the doubt, and minimise         remediate more efficiently or make up for absent records, licensees
      the risk of under-                 may consider using assumptions that are beneficial for consumers: see
      compensation                       RG 277.113–RG 277.141.

                                         Overall, licensees should only use assumptions in a remediation if they
                                         are beneficial to consumers and will result in an outcome that:
                                          returns affected consumers, as closely as possible, to the position
                                           they would have otherwise been in had the misconduct or other
                                           failure not occurred; and
                                          is evidence based and well documented.

                                         If assumptions are used for scoping or calculating loss, licensees
                                         should give consumers the benefit of the doubt, and minimise the risk of
                                         consumers falling out of scope or being under-compensated: see
                                         RG 277.114–RG 277.117.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                           Page 15
                                                                         REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




 Principle                               Description

 4    Ensure that key decisions          Licensees should document and track the remediation by keeping
      are justified and                  accurate and relevant records of the remediation approach, decision
      documented                         making, progress and consumer outcomes. ASIC may ask to see these
                                         records.
                                            Note: Licensees subject to the notify, investigate and remediate obligations
                                            must keep records to demonstrate compliance with the obligations: see
                                            RG 277.304.

                                         Key decisions about scoping and remedies that will affect consumer
                                         outcomes should be evidence based and appropriately justified in the
                                         circumstances.

                                         Monitoring the remediation, specifically the consumer outcomes, will
                                         help improve this and future remediations. Learning and adapting to
                                         new information as it becomes available will help licensees achieve
                                         good consumer outcomes.

 5    Apply reasonable                   Licensees should apply reasonable endeavours in making remediation
      endeavours when making             payments to affected consumers, or when providing remedies. Payment
      remediation payments               methods that require no consumer action should be prioritised (e.g.
                                         electronic funds transfer (EFT) or PayID): see RG 277.153–
                                         RG 277.171.

                                         Licensees should return remediation money owed to current customers
                                         regardless of value. However, for former customers who are owed $5 or
                                         less (after interest), licensees may instead make a residual remediation
                                         payment without applying reasonable endeavours: see RG 277.160–
                                         RG 277.163 on low-value compensation thresholds.
                                            Note: A ‘residual remediation payment’ is a payment to a charity or not-for-
                                            profit organisation registered with the Australian Charities and Not-for-profits
                                            Commission (ACNC) made up of consolidated remediation money that could
                                            not be returned to consumers despite reasonable endeavours: see
                                            RG 277.194–RG 277.197.

 6    Be timely without sacrificing      Remediations should be initiated and conducted promptly. Efficient and
      quality consumer outcomes          timely remediation benefits everyone, as long as there is no trade-off in
                                         quality. Delayed identification of misconduct or other failures, and slow
                                         initiation and conduct of remediations can:
                                          exacerbate detriment already suffered, especially if the consumer is
                                           suffering financial hardship;
                                          increase the likelihood that records become lost or get destroyed;
                                          increase the likelihood that consumer information becomes outdated,
                                           and existing customers become ex-customers; and
                                          significantly increase the cost of the remediation program for a
                                           licensee, also risking reputational damage.

                                         What a reasonable timeframe is for a remediation will depend on the
                                         nature and complexity of the matter and the availability of data, with
                                         reference to factors like the nature of the misconduct or other failure,
                                         the size of the licensee, the number of affected consumers, the type of
                                         loss experienced by those consumers, and the quality of contact and
                                         payment information.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                                      Page 16
                                                                         REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




 Principle                               Description

 6    Be timely without sacrificing      For larger or complex remediations with longer timeframes, it might be
      quality consumer outcomes          appropriate to conduct a tiered remediation—for example, by focusing
      —continued                         on segments of affected consumers, or first prioritising payments for
                                         consumers who can be paid easily or are experiencing hardship: see
                                         RG 277.142–RG 277.144.
                                            Note: Particular timeframes apply to licensees subject to the notify, investigate
                                            and remediate obligations: see RG 277.310–RG 277.314.

                                         However, if a remediation is unjustifiably protracted or delayed, this may
                                         indicate that the licensee has breached its general licensee obligations.
                                            Note: See Regulatory Guide 78 Breach reporting by AFS licensees and credit
                                            licensees (RG 78), Table 2: Examples of deemed significant breaches,
                                            Example 3(g).

                                         Assumptions that are beneficial to consumers can offer a balance
                                         between timeliness and accuracy without a trade-off in quality: see
                                         RG 277.134–RG 277.136.

 7    Make the process easy for          A remediation should be made easy for consumers by minimising
      consumers by minimising            complexity and the need for consumer action: see RG 277.150–
      complexity and, where              RG 277.152. Remediations should also be free for all consumers.
      possible, limiting their
                                         Consumers who have or may have been affected by the misconduct or
      involvement in the process
                                         other failure should be automatically included in the scope of a
                                         remediation. They should not be asked whether they want to participate
                                         (otherwise known as an ‘opt-in arrangement’). An in-scope consumer
                                         should not be excluded from a remediation or disadvantaged merely
                                         because they fail to respond to correspondence, or cannot provide
                                         evidence of their loss.

 8    Do not profit from the             Licensees must not profit from the misconduct or other failure. If
      misconduct or other failure        affected consumers are lost or uncontactable despite reasonable
                                         endeavours, licensees should lodge the outstanding payments in a
                                         relevant unclaimed money regime, or make a residual remediation
                                         payment to a charity or not-for-profit organisation registered with the
                                         ACNC: see RG 277.188–RG 277.197.
                                            Note: Licensees remediating unit pricing errors should have regard to RG 94.

 9    Ensure the remediation has         Remediations must have adequate resourcing and governance
      adequate resourcing,               arrangements in place, including commitment from senior management.
      governance and
                                         Larger licensees should ensure that the people who are managing the
      accountability
                                         design and conduct of remediations have appropriate training and skills
                                         to deliver fair and timely consumer outcomes. This may also involve
                                         engaging an independent expert to provide assurance about the
                                         governance and operation of the remediation process: see
                                         RG 277.220–RG 277.226.

                                         Licensees should consider whether it may be in the public interest or
                                         required under their disclosure obligations to report publicly on the
                                         remediation. ASIC may also from time to time publicly report on the
                                         existence, progress and outcome of remediations that we are
                                         monitoring: see RG 277.233–RG 277.235.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                                     Page 17
                                                                    REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




D          Scoping the misconduct or other failure

                              Key points

                              Once the misconduct or other failure has been identified, licensees should
                              take all reasonable steps to access and secure the evidence, records and
                              data necessary to complete the remediation: see RG 277.40–RG 277.44.

                              Conducting a remediation will generally first involve investigating the nature
                              and extent of the misconduct or other failure, including identifying when the
                              misconduct or other failure first began and who has been affected: see
                              RG 277.45–RG 277.60.

                              To identify the scope and affected consumers, licensees may use a
                              number of methods, including data analysis, file reviews, assumptions or a
                              combination, see Section F. These methods are also relevant for
                              determining appropriate outcomes: see Section E.


Accessing evidence, records and data
              RG 277.40      Licensees have a range of record-keeping obligations that are relevant to their
                             ability to effectively conduct remediations: see RG 277.296–RG 277.300.

              RG 277.41      Licensees should ensure that relevant records are readily accessible,
                             including, for example, when acquiring a third-party provider, administrator
                             or financial adviser.

              RG 277.42      Licensees should take all reasonable steps to access and secure the evidence,
                             data and records held by the business or relevant external third parties that
                             are necessary in order to complete the remediation. This process should
                             occur as early as possible in the remediation process to avoid any accidental
                             or automatic erasure of evidence.

              RG 277.43      Authorised representatives have obligations to provide records to licensees
                             on request: see ASIC Corporations (Record-Keeping Requirements for
                             Australian Financial Services Licensees when Giving Personal Advice)
                             Instrument 2024/508. This obligation continues to apply even if the
                             authorised representative ceases its relationship with the licensee. Licensees
                             should be open and transparent with the third parties involved to ensure that
                             the provision of relevant records and evidence is as efficient as possible.

              RG 277.44      Sometimes the evidence will already be easily accessible. For example, in
                             situations of overcharged fees, an analysis of the data may reveal exactly
                             what systems or products are implicated, which consumers have been
                             affected, and the loss suffered. If the misconduct or other failure is identified
                             quickly, there will rarely be challenges associated with accessing reliable
                             evidence. Licensees that have data capability and accurate, digitised records
                             will also generally be better placed to efficiently conduct a remediation.



© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                      Page 18
                                                                    REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




Investigating the nature and cause of misconduct or other failure
              RG 277.45      When conducting a remediation a licensee should assess the root cause(s) or
                             underlying drivers to understand the nature and extent of the misconduct or
                             other failure. One failure could have multiple root causes and licensees
                             should not just ask what happened, but why and how it happened: see
                             Example 4. Sometimes the cause(s) might be difficult to identify, while at
                             other times the cause(s) of the misconduct or other failure will be readily
                             identifiable.

                              Example 4: Investigating the cause of misconduct or other failure

                              Lima Insurance (Lima) sold a range of life insurance products direct to
                              potential consumers through outbound telephone calls. The products sold
                              in its outbound telephone sales were more expensive and of lower value
                              than products sold through other channels. Many of the products offered
                              very limited benefit to consumers, were sold using pressure-selling tactics
                              or mis-selling conduct, and had poor disclosure. It was likely that the
                              telephone sales were in breach of the anti-hawking provisions.

                              Lima began a remediation and investigated the underlying causes of the
                              hawking and pressure-selling misconduct.

                              Three causes of systemic compliance issues were identified:
                              • a remuneration structure that incentivised staff to make as many sales
                                as possible at the expense of consumers’ interests;
                              • a culture and governance that enabled unfair and aggressive sales
                                tactics at the cost of compliance, which included aggressive objections
                                handling approaches and the circumvention of the conflicted
                                remuneration provisions; and
                              • large deficiencies in its risk management practices, including its quality
                                assurance and compliance program.

                              Commentary

                              Investigating the underlying drivers of the misconduct led to Lima
                              identifying a range of systemic compliance issues. This work will help
                              inform the scope of the remediation, and ensure the full extent and impact
                              of the misconduct is understood and affected consumers are identified.




Investigating the full extent of misconduct or other failure
              RG 277.46      It is important that licensees ensure that the full extent of the misconduct or
                             other failure has been investigated, to identify how many consumers have
                             been affected. There might be a question about whether the misconduct or
                             other failure is more widespread than what initial evidence suggests.

              RG 277.47      Licensees may use data, complaints, trend analysis and known risk
                             indicators to investigate how far the misconduct or other failure extends, and




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                      Page 19
                                                                    REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




                             this will help licensees understand which consumers are affected. Generally,
                             licensees should assess:
                             (a)   whether other products, brands, advice or services might be involved;
                             (b)   whether systems, processes or policies might have failed;
                             (c)   whether representatives or employees might be implicated;
                             (d)   whether platforms or sales channels may be affected; or
                             (e)   whether business groups, product or service providers, subsidiaries or
                                   licensees might be impacted.

                              Example 5: Investigating the full extent of misconduct or other failure

                              In 2020, Grossman Insurance (Grossman) internally identified an error in
                              some of its pricing algorithms for a certain brand product, which effectively
                              meant that renewing customers did not receive the correct eligible
                              discounts. The disclosure and marketing materials did not accurately reflect
                              how the premiums were calculated and how discounts were applied.

                              Grossman lodged a breach report with ASIC under s912D of the
                              Corporations Act, and informed ASIC about the remediation program that
                              had been initiated.

                              ASIC was concerned that Grossman was not investigating the underlying
                              drivers and full extent of the misconduct. ASIC challenged Grossman to do
                              this analysis as well as review all its brands and systems for relevant
                              breaches, given the nature of the misconduct.

                              As a result, Grossman identified several pricing errors impacting a number
                              of branded policies.

                              Grossman also identified the following underlying drivers:
                              • complex and outdated ‘legacy’ technology systems that significantly
                                increase the likelihood of financial and compliance risks occurring;
                              • equally complex and often poorly disclosed pricing practices; and
                              • poor governance, controls, and monitoring and supervision to ensure
                                compliance with obligations to consumers.

                              Grossman also reviewed whether certain breaches may have occurred not
                              just in the pricing algorithms but also through errors that were hard coded
                              into policy administration systems.

                              Commentary

                              Before finalising the scope of the remediation, Grossman should have
                              investigated the underlying drivers to help identify the full extent of the
                              pricing and systems errors across other products and brands.

              RG 277.48      Depending on the approach and nature of the misconduct or other failure,
                             licensees may also need to consider whether file sampling is necessary to
                             test whether the misconduct or other failure is more widespread than the
                             evidence at hand indicates.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                       Page 20
                                                                      REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




Determining the remediation review period
              RG 277.49      It is important that the right timeframe is selected as part of the remediation.
                             This involves investigating over what period of time the relevant misconduct
                             or other failure may have occurred and the length of time that consumers
                             have potentially been affected (remediation review period).

              RG 277.50      By understanding the nature, root cause and extent of the misconduct or
                             other failure, licensees should be able to determine, based on available
                             information, when they reasonably suspect the misconduct or other failure
                             first occurred and caused loss to a consumer. This should always be a
                             licensee’s starting point for the remediation review period.

              RG 277.51      If licensees have adequate systems and processes in place to identify
                             misconduct or other failures promptly, the remediation review period should
                             rarely exceed any record-retention requirements, and licensees will not have
                             to consider using assumptions to account for absent records. If a remediation
                             review period does extend beyond seven years, it may indicate a systemic
                             underinvestment in systems to deliver products and identify misconduct or
                             other failures as they arise.

              RG 277.52      When the misconduct or other failure extends beyond record-retention
                             requirements, and records have been destroyed in good faith, the remediation
                             review period may be limited. However, licensees should consider if it is
                             possible or reasonable to apply assumptions to identify and compensate
                             consumers who suffered loss beyond such period (such as seven years): see
                             RG 277.129–RG 277.133 for more information.

              RG 277.53      Licensees should remember that individual consumers have rights to seek a
                             review or compensation under other statutory frameworks, including IDR
                             and through AFCA. No limitation to a remediation review period can
                             extinguish these rights.

                                   Note: Other frameworks such as the state, territory and Commonwealth unclaimed
                                   money regimes have also been established to ensure that money owed to consumers
                                   remains available to them beyond the expiry of any statutory limitation period.

                              Example 6: How to determine the remediation review period

                              Belair Financial Pty Ltd (Belair) is a small financial advice firm. In 2022,
                              following a compliance review, Belair discovered that an authorised
                              representative had recently given inappropriate advice about particular
                              high-risk investments. As soon as Belair discovered this, it took steps to
                              recover and secure all of the authorised representative’s client files.

                              The adviser had been an authorised representative of Belair since 2014,
                              but Belair did not know when the relevant misconduct first occurred. Belair
                              reviewed samples of the representative’s advice for each year between
                              2014 and 2022 and found instances of inappropriate advice between 2018
                              and 2022. All of the representative’s advice from 2014 to 2017 that Belair




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                             Page 21
                                                                      REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




                              reviewed was appropriate advice in clients’ best interests. As a result of this
                              analysis, Belair determined the remediation review period to be 2018 to
                              2022.

                              Commentary

                              This is an example of how a licensee may determine a remediation review
                              period. If Belair had identified evidence of advice on high-risk investments
                              or inappropriate advice before 2017, it may be reasonable to extend the
                              review period back to 2014 (when the adviser first become an authorised
                              representative of Belair). Because Belair has secured the files, it would be
                              able to remediate back to 2014 if required, despite this being longer than
                              standard record-keeping requirements.

                              The root cause analysis and the nature of the misconduct could also
                              provide reasonable evidence as to how far back the misconduct may go,
                              including whether other authorised representatives may have engaged in
                              similar misconduct.




Identifying affected consumers
              RG 277.54      Once the nature, cause and extent of the misconduct or other failure is
                             understood, licensees should be able to identify consumers who have or may
                             have been affected by the misconduct or other failure. Working out who may
                             have been affected is an exercise that should be robust and inclusive.

              RG 277.55      Licensees should review the evidence and records necessary to determine
                             which consumers have or may have been affected as a result of the
                             misconduct or other failure. Depending on what went wrong, reviewing all
                             records may be the only appropriate approach: see RG 277.104–RG 277.112
                             for more guidance on file reviews.

              RG 277.56      In some cases, however, licensees may need to use assumptions to account
                             for absent records or increase efficiency to achieve fair and timely outcomes
                             (e.g. using assumptions rather than requiring affected consumers to provide
                             evidence of their financial loss or eligibility). See RG 277.113–RG 277.141
                             for further guidance on giving consumers the benefit of the doubt.

              RG 277.57      It is not appropriate to ask consumers who are likely to fall within scope
                             (with a reasonable level of certainty) whether they wish to participate or ‘opt
                             in’ to a remediation. They should be included automatically. If a consumer
                             contacts the licensee and requests inclusion in the remediation, the licensee
                             should consider their eligibility. If the licensee subsequently determines the
                             consumer has suffered loss as a result of the relevant misconduct or other
                             failure, this likely warrants a review of the original scope.

                                   Note: For more information on ‘calls to action’, see RG 277.150–RG 277.152.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                                Page 22
                                                                    REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




                              Example 7: Inappropriate opt-in methodology

                              Jupiter Advisory (Jupiter) incorrectly charged adviser service fees from
                              consumers’ cash management trusts to which Jupiter had access. This
                              happened in a number of situations, including when the adviser was
                              inactive, or when the consumer had asked for the adviser to be removed
                              from their account. As a result, consumers did not receive the services that
                              they paid for. A remediation was initiated.

                              Jupiter proposed an opt-in methodology that would involve the licensee
                              writing to consumers to ask them whether they would like their fees
                              refunded. Jupiter knew that the ‘likely outcome’ of taking this approach was
                              that Jupiter would have to pay less compensation.

                              Commentary

                              Once Jupiter has proactively identified all of the affected consumers, these
                              consumers should be compensated automatically. Consumers should not
                              be asked to opt in. The remediation process should minimise complexity
                              and consumer action, preferably by making any remediation payments
                              directly to a consumer’s bank account.


Reviewing and testing the scope
              RG 277.58      Further misconduct or other failures may be identified during the remediation.
                             If this occurs, the scope of the remediation may need to be revised (e.g. other
                             failures in product areas not originally anticipated, or representatives and/or
                             staff not previously identified). Licensees should also consider whether any
                             closed matters in the remediation need to be re-examined.

              RG 277.59      Licensees should also have processes in place to review and monitor
                             complaints that relate to the scope. For example, a licensee should:
                             (a)   be able to determine whether there are consumers who have had
                                   previous complaints reviewed by IDR or AFCA that would fit within
                                   the parameters of the current remediation; and
                             (b)   have processes in place to review circumstances of consumers who
                                   indicate later—including after the remediation has been concluded—
                                   that they should be considered.

              RG 277.60      Licensees may consider testing the scope of the remediation to ensure that it
                             properly captures all affected consumers.

                              Example 8: Revising the scope of the remediation

                              Vade Advisory (Vade) began a review of consumer files after becoming
                              aware that three of its advisers had been giving inappropriate insurance
                              advice. After reviewing a sample of advice by the three advisers, Vade felt
                              certain that the deficiencies in the advice related only to insurance advice.

                              After commencing a review of all consumers who received insurance
                              advice by the three advisers in the past four years (the length of the



© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                      Page 23
                                                                    REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




                              advisers’ employment), it became apparent that one of the advisers was
                              also giving superannuation advice that was inappropriate.

                              Vade reviewed a sample of the adviser’s superannuation advice over the
                              past four years and found further instances of inappropriate superannuation
                              advice. As a result, Vade decided to expand the scope of the remediation
                              to include superannuation advice given by that adviser.
                              Commentary

                              It was appropriate for the advice licensee to revise the scope of the
                              remediation.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                      Page 24
                                                                    REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




E          Determining an appropriate outcome

                              Key points

                              Remediation outcomes for affected consumers must be fair and timely. The
                              aim is to return affected consumers as closely as possible to the position
                              they would have otherwise been in had the misconduct or other failure not
                              occurred: see RG 277.61–RG 277.63.

                              Table 2 provides a non-exhaustive list of possible remedies to consider
                              when determining appropriate outcomes for affected consumers in a range
                              of circumstances.

                              Depending on the circumstances, an appropriate outcome may include:
                              • a monetary remedy, which may require the calculation of foregone
                                returns or interest (see RG 277.69–RG 277.87); and/or
                              • a non-monetary remedy, such as providing legal or other assistance
                                (see RG 277.88–RG 277.100).

                              Licensees should also consider what tax consequences the consumer may
                              incur as a result of the remediation payment to ensure that they are
                              returned to the position they would otherwise have been in, as closely as
                              possible: see RG 277.101–RG 277.103.

                              For guidance on the methodologies to use in determining an appropriate
                              outcome, see Section F.


Returning consumers to the position they would have been in
              RG 277.61      Once the nature, cause and the extent of the misconduct or other failure is
                             understood and affected consumers are identified, licensees should start to
                             think about how to deliver appropriate consumer outcomes that are fair and
                             timely, including the type of remedies.

              RG 277.62      The guiding principle for all remediations is to return affected consumers as
                             closely as possible to the position they would have been in had the
                             misconduct or other failure not occurred. However, there are some rare
                             circumstances when this may not be appropriate: see Example 9.

                              Example 9: When it may not be appropriate to return consumers to
                              the position they would have otherwise been in

                              BBNG Advisory (BBNG) designed a large-scale remediation for consumers
                              who had paid fees for ongoing advice but did not receive the advice in
                              return. BBNG intended to return consumers to the position they would have
                              been in if the misconduct had not occurred by:
                              • refunding the fees that were incorrectly deducted (refund amount); and
                              • adjusting the payment to reflect the interest or earnings that the refund
                                amount would have earned if it had remained in a consumer’s account
                                or investment fund.



© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                      Page 25
                                                                    REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




                              For most consumers, this resulted in payment of the refund amount plus
                              interest or investment earnings. However, for a group of consumers, the
                              value of the investment fund that the fees were deducted from had declined.
                              A rigid application of BBNG’s compensation principles would have resulted in
                              these consumers receiving negative interest or earnings, so they would have
                              been compensated with less than the fees they had paid.

                              BBNG decided to set a minimum floor on the refunds and compensation
                              paid, so that no consumer would have their compensation reduced by
                              negative interest or earnings, and all affected consumers would receive at
                              least the value of the fees incorrectly deducted plus an interest component.

                              Commentary

                              It was appropriate for the licensee to not apply negative interest or earnings
                              in determining the amount to be paid to affected consumers.

              RG 277.63      In other cases, it may not be possible to return consumers to the position they
                             would have otherwise been in: see Example 10. Licensees should do what
                             they can to compensate the consumer for the disadvantage caused by the
                             misconduct or other failure.

                              Example 10: When it may not be possible to return consumers to the
                              position they would have otherwise been in

                              Steel Financial Solutions (Steel) has discovered that one of its
                              representatives has been routinely advising consumers to move out of their
                              defined benefit superannuation schemes, and into an accumulation fund.
                              Consumers have accepted the advice and moved funds.

                              File reviews confirmed that the advice was not appropriate for the
                              150 consumers in question and was contrary to their best interests.

                              The core impact on consumers is that they had been moved from a
                              superannuation fund that had no investment risk to a superannuation fund
                              under which the consumers bore investment risk.

                              Due to the nature of defined benefit superannuation, the consumers could
                              not be returned to that superannuation fund and thereby returned to the
                              position they would have been in had the misconduct or other failure not
                              occurred. Instead, Steel appropriately compensated the consumers for their
                              loss by:
                              • refunding all advice fees to the consumer’s superannuation account; and
                              • purchasing a guaranteed annuity on equivalent terms to replace the
                                foregone guaranteed income.

                              Commentary
                              It was appropriate for the licensee to think of alternative remedies that
                              could ensure that the affected consumers were not further disadvantaged
                              by the misconduct, despite not being returned to the position they would
                              have otherwise been in. Due to the complexity of the case, Steel could also
                              consider appointing an independent expert to assess its methodology and
                              approach.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                      Page 26
                                                                        REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




Determining monetary and non-monetary remedies
              RG 277.64        The types of remedies to address consumer loss can be monetary or non-
                               monetary, or a combination of both.

              RG 277.65        Licensees should consider a broad range of possible remedies to address how
                               the misconduct or other failure has affected the consumer to date, and what
                               needs to be done to avoid the risk of ongoing harm or future consequences as
                               a result of the misconduct or other failure.

              RG 277.66        To determine an appropriate remedy, licensees may need to assess available
                               records to identify ‘features’ of affected consumers (or cohorts of
                               consumers) that may be relevant to how the misconduct or other failure may
                               have affected them. For example, consumer cohorts who are suffering
                               financial hardship or difficulty because of the misconduct or other failure, or
                               have been identified as potentially experiencing vulnerability, may need
                               additional remedies such as support services or professional assistance.

                                   Note: For more information on how to do this in practice, see p 4 and Resources A and B in
                                   Making it right: How to run a consumer-centred remediation (Making it right).

              RG 277.67        Some consumers may also suffer loss that is not immediately apparent to a
                               licensee. It is important licensees provide a consumer with clear information
                               about how they have calculated compensation (or if the calculations are
                               complex, an opportunity to request further information), so that the
                               consumer is able to provide detail of any additional loss that was not
                               considered by the licensee when determining the appropriate remedy.

              RG 277.68        Table 2 provides a non-exhaustive list of possible remedies to consider when
                               determining appropriate outcomes for affected consumers in the relevant
                               circumstances.

Table 2:    Remedies to consider when determining appropriate outcomes

 Misconduct or other failure        Possible remedies and considerations

 Misconduct related to              A licensee should consider the following remedies when relevant:
 providing financial product         refunding advice fees plus foregone returns or interest;
 advice
                                     offering free remedial financial advice;
                                     compensating for lost investment performance or interest;
                                     compensating for a lost or inferior insurance position; and
                                     moving consumers into an appropriate product.

 Fees for no service                See INFO 232.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                                   Page 27
                                                                       REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




 Misconduct or other failure       Possible remedies and considerations

 Misconduct related to             A licensee should consider the following remedies when relevant:
 insurance products                 refunding past premiums plus foregone returns or interest (including to
                                     consumers eligible and ineligible to claim under the relevant policy);
                                    compensation for indirect financial loss (e.g. interest on credit cards used to
                                     pay for the premiums);
                                    revisiting previously declined claims and allowing for retrospective claims;
                                    cancelling the policy with consumer consent and providing a refund of past
                                     premiums plus interest from the date of misconduct to the date of
                                     cancellation;
                                    if the policy cannot be cancelled or a customer chooses to remain in the
                                     policy, and they are ineligible to claim, a licensee should (in addition to
                                     refunding past premiums plus interest) consider:
                                     − refunding or waiving future premiums;
                                     − reducing premiums to cost; and/or
                                     − waiving eligibility criteria or other conditions; and
                                    offering to cover costs of obtaining remedial financial advice, particularly
                                     when consumers are presented with different remediation outcomes to
                                     choose from.
                                   For policies where claims have been made that were declined based on the
                                   offending eligibility requirements, a licensee should reopen and reassess the
                                   claim. When a payment is made for open policies, it may be acceptable for the
                                   claim payment to be reduced with reference to outstanding premiums. Under
                                   s57 of the Insurance Contracts Act, interest must be awarded from the date
                                   the claim should have been accepted.

 Systems failures or errors        In remediations relating to systems failures or errors that have resulted in, for
 related to banking products       example, mischarged fees or interest, or the failure to provide benefits,
                                   discounts or waivers, a licensee should consider the following remedies:
                                    refunding mischarged amounts such as fees or interest, plus foregone
                                     returns or interest;
                                    compensating for the failure to apply benefits, discounts or waivers; and
                                    compensating for any other indirect financial loss suffered as a result of the
                                     misconduct or other failure (e.g. overdraft fees, late fees and/or related
                                     charges by other creditors if known).

 Misconduct related to             If a consumer paid bundled fees (i.e. a single fee for a number of services or
 bundled fees                      products, including the subject of the misconduct or other failure in question),
                                   a licensee should consider the following remedies:
                                    refunding fees for the services or products not provided plus interest (the
                                     licensee should be able to calculate the relative financial value of the
                                     service(s) or product(s) not provided as part of a bundle); and
                                    unbundling the products or fees.

                                   If the licensee cannot ascertain the financial value of the service(s) or
                                   product(s) not provided as part of the bundled fee, assumptions should be
                                   made that are beneficial to consumers, including assumptions that might
                                   result in the entire fee being refunded.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                              Page 28
                                                                        REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




 Misconduct or other failure       Possible remedies and considerations

 Misconduct related to             A licensee should consider the following remedies when relevant:
 consumer lease or credit           refunding fees, charges and interest (including any establishment fees,
 contracts                           dishonour fees, late payment fees, monthly fees or enforcement fees);
                                    varying or voiding the contract;
                                    reducing interest rates;
                                    reducing the principal, waiving the outstanding debt and/or providing a
                                     refund of amounts already paid under the loan;
                                    where a loan is secured or involves goods subject to a consumer lease,
                                     allowing the consumer to retain the underlying asset if appropriate for the
                                     consumer;
                                    accounting for any capital losses that have been incurred as a result of the
                                     loan;
                                    if the unsuitable loan or consumer lease resulted in bankruptcy or other
                                     enforcement proceedings, considering what other remedial action can assist
                                     the consumer; and
                                    offering to cover free remedial financial advice.

                                   Principal or interest rate reduction is called for when a consumer is likely
                                   suffering substantial hardship as a result of the licensee’s misconduct or other
                                   failure. It is generally not acceptable to lower regular repayments by extending
                                   the term of the loan (and expecting a consumer to remain indebted for longer
                                   than they had agreed).

                                   Similar considerations should be made where other forms of lender error (e.g.
                                   failing to convert an interest only loan to principal and interest) has led to
                                   consumer loss.

                                   A licensee should also consider whether the consumer’s credit information
                                   (including consumer credit liability information, repayment history information
                                   and default information) is inaccurate, out of date, incomplete, irrelevant or
                                   misleading under the Privacy Act 1988 and the Privacy (Credit Reporting)
                                   Code 2025 as a result of the misconduct or other failure. If so, the licensee
                                   must correct the information and, if the licensee has previously disclosed any
                                   of that information to a credit reporting body (or anyone else), notify the
                                   relevant credit reporting body of that correction (and those other recipients).

 Misconduct related to             A licensee should consider the following remedies when relevant:
 mortgage brokers or other          compensation for any fees, interest and costs that the consumer would not
 credit intermediaries               have otherwise incurred;
                                    offering to cover free remedial advice from a credit assistance provider to
                                     review the consumer’s circumstances; and
                                    where appropriate, assisting the consumer to request the relevant lender to
                                     change features on their existing loan or move to another suitable loan.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                              Page 29
                                                                       REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




 Misconduct or other failure       Possible remedies and considerations

 Misconduct related to             A licensee should consider the following remedies when relevant:
 superannuation products            refunding or adjusting fees;
                                    compensation to reflect investment returns had the misconduct or other
                                     failure not occurred;
                                    adjusting and/or refunding insurance premiums;
                                    adjusting defined benefit entitlements; and
                                    compensation for foregone returns due to the delay in rolling over benefits.

                                   A licensee should consider the direct financial loss as well as how the
                                   misconduct or other failure was carried forward (investment switch) or
                                   crystallised (member exit). Further monetary or non-monetary remedies may
                                   be required to address any indirect flow-on impacts to benefit calculations,
                                   insurance benefit eligibility and cover levels, and preservation ages.

                                   It may be appropriate to offer to cover the costs of remedial professional
                                   advice, particularly if the remediation is complex or if the member may need to
                                   switch products.

                                   Superannuation trustees should also consider the tax consequences that may
                                   result from the remediation payment, particularly in communicating outcomes
                                   to their members.

 Unit pricing errors               See RG 94.

 Misconduct related to over-       A licensee should consider the following remedies when relevant:
 the-counter (OTC) derivative       the refunding of any fees and charges relating to the misconduct or other
 products                            failure that are determined to be inappropriate;
                                    the rescission of contracts where the licensee has facilitated unlicensed
                                     conduct; and
                                    compensation where appropriate to account for consumer loss suffered as a
                                     result of, for example:
                                     − the licensee failing to price and execute its transactions transparently,
                                       based on relevant benchmarks and publicly available pricing data and
                                       available pricing at the time;
                                     − mis-selling based on false or misleading statements before opening an
                                       account or entering into a trade; and
                                     − trading platform failures or outages (e.g. failed transactions, delayed
                                       execution of orders, or inability to manage open positions and/or risk).

 Misconduct related to debt        A licensee should consider the following remedies when relevant:
 management services                refunding fees plus interest;
                                    compensation for costs incurred as a result of the misconduct or failure (e.g.
                                     compensation for additional interest charged on a credit contract a debt
                                     management service provider was engaged to reduce);
                                    assisting consumers to access free alternatives to manage their financial
                                     situations (e.g. referring a consumer to the National Debt Helpline or
                                     financial counsellors); and
                                    compensation for any known non-financial loss caused by the misconduct or
                                     other failure.
                                     Note: See Information Sheet 254 Debt management services: Applying for a credit
                                     licence or variation (INFO 254) for some other relevant considerations.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                                Page 30
                                                                       REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




                             Monetary remedies

              RG 277.69      When determining direct financial loss, licensees may decide whether it is
                             appropriate to calculate the actual financial loss or use assumptions that are
                             beneficial to consumers: see RG 277.104–RG 277.112 for file reviews or
                             RG 277.113–RG 277.141 for use of assumptions. What the appropriate
                             approach is will depend on the circumstances: see Table 2.

              RG 277.70      Depending on the circumstances, compensation for financial loss will
                             generally include foregone returns or interest: see RG 277.74–RG 277.87.

              RG 277.71      Licensees should also consider if any indirect financial loss was suffered as a
                             result of the misconduct or other failure—for example, overdraft fees or late
                             payment fees. Depending on the nature of the remediation and if the licensee
                             has a high level of engagement with individual affected consumers, it may
                             also be appropriate for a licensee to compensate the consumer for any known
                             non-financial loss suffered as a result of the misconduct or other failure: see
                             Example 19.

                                   Note: AFCA may consider claims for non-financial loss when appropriate: see the
                                   AFCA Complaint Resolution Scheme Rules (AFCA’s Rules) at Rule D3.3.

              RG 277.72      If relevant, when calculating financial loss, a licensee should not discount
                             the compensation owed to account for any unrealisable benefits. For
                             example, it is not appropriate for a licensee to discount the compensation
                             owed for a mis-sold insurance product because it believes holding the
                             insurance policy gave the consumer ‘peace of mind’, or because the
                             consumer chose to remain in the relevant product.

              RG 277.73      A partial monetary remedy may be appropriate in limited circumstances, but
                             only if the consumer has received a legitimate and demonstrable financial
                             benefit in return. If making assumptions about a consumer’s financial
                             benefit, licensees should apply the guidance at RG 277.113–RG 277.141.

                             Foregone returns or interest

              RG 277.74      The guiding principle for determining compensation is to return consumers,
                             as closely as possible, to the position they would have been in had the
                             misconduct or other failure not occurred. To achieve this, licensees must
                             account for consumers’ foregone returns or interest—specifically:
                             (a)   returns or interest the consumer would have received but for the
                                   misconduct or other failure; and/or
                             (b)   interest the consumer would not have incurred but for the misconduct or
                                   other failure.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                               Page 31
                                                                      REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




              RG 277.75      Depending on the circumstances of the remediation and the licensee’s
                             preferences, a licensee may:
                             (a)   calculate the actual foregone returns or interest (see RG 277.80–
                                   RG 277.81); or
                             (b)   apply assumptions that are beneficial to consumers (see RG 277.82–
                                   RG 277.87).

              RG 277.76      Licensees may also use a combination of both approaches. For example, the
                             licensee may calculate the actual foregone returns or interest for the period
                             the consumer was in the product, and apply assumptions from the date the
                             consumer exited the product.

              RG 277.77      Licensees should first consider whether using assumptions is appropriate in
                             the circumstances (as opposed to calculating actual foregone returns or
                             interest), considering their relevant legal duties and obligations. For
                             example, licensees remediating unit pricing errors should follow RG 94
                             where compensation is to be made using trust or scheme property.

              RG 277.78      For either approach, licensees should also determine whether simple interest
                             or compounding interest applies.

              RG 277.79      For compounding interest, licensees need to consider the compounding
                             period and frequency of the interest calculations. Licensees should apply the
                             known compounding period and calculation frequency when available. In
                             circumstances where the licensee does not have access to any actual data of
                             forgone returns or interest, it should make assumptions that are beneficial to
                             consumers and at least apply compounding interest. If using assumptions,
                             simple interest will rarely be appropriate unless a licensee can justify that it
                             is beneficial to consumers.

                                   Note: When using assumptions, licensees must refer to the guidance at RG 277.113–
                                   RG 277.141. For specific guidance on using assumptions when calculating foregone
                                   returns or interest, see RG 277.82–RG 277.87.


                             Calculating actual foregone returns or interest

              RG 277.80      Calculating the actual foregone returns or interest could involve, but is not
                             limited to:
                             (a)   retrieving actual product returns or interest data for the relevant period;
                             (b)   identifying each consumer’s payment method and, if paid with credit,
                                   the actual interest rate applied; and/or
                             (c)   determining the actual returns or interest the consumer would have
                                   received had compliant advice or services been provided.

              RG 277.81      Example 11 illustrates how a licensee might calculate actual foregone
                             returns or interest.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                              Page 32
                                                                    REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




                              Example 11: Calculating actual foregone returns or interest

                              In 2020, CAPE Superannuation (CAPE) discovered that it had overcharged
                              members’ administration fees. These fees were deducted directly from
                              members’ superannuation balances in 2016. The overcharged fee amount
                              would have otherwise remained in members’ balances and continued to
                              generate investment returns within the product.

                              CAPE is able to access its own data showing each member’s actual
                              investment return (as a percentage) between 2016 (the date of the
                              misconduct or other failure) and 2020 (the remediation payment date).
                              CAPE applied this return to the overcharged fee amount to calculate what
                              each member was owed. In other words, CAPE compensated members for
                              both their overcharged fee amount and their associated foregone
                              investment returns.

                              Commentary

                              This is an example of how a licensee may use data or records to calculate
                              the actual returns members would have received had the misconduct not
                              occurred.

                             Applying assumptions

              RG 277.82      Alternatively, when calculating foregone returns or interest, licensees may
                             choose to apply assumptions that are beneficial to consumers. Licensees may
                             do so, for example, if applying assumptions is more efficient or to account
                             for absent records. This approach should satisfy the considerations at
                             RG 277.115–RG 277.116 and be reasonably justified.

              RG 277.83      Assumptions that are beneficial to consumers are likely to also be useful
                             when a licensee does not know how the consumer would have used the
                             money but for the misconduct or other failure (e.g. the consumer could have
                             spent, saved, paid debt or invested the money in a number of different ways).

              RG 277.84      A prescribed interest rate under legislation may be relevant to the
                             circumstances of some remediations. For these remediations, ASIC will treat
                             the use of a prescribed rate as being beneficial to consumers and reasonably
                             justified. For example, s57 of the Insurance Contracts Act and reg 38 of the
                             Insurance Contracts Regulations 2017 (Insurance Contracts Regulations)
                             prescribe an interest rate reflective of the 10-year Australian Government
                             bond rate plus 3%.

              RG 277.85      If no prescribed interest rate applies, licensees should apply their own
                             assumptions that are beneficial to consumers and are reasonably justified in
                             the circumstances. When developing assumptions to calculate foregone
                             returns or interest, licensees should consider (in addition to the guidance
                             under RG 277.122–RG 277.125), among other things:
                             (a)   the context in which the misconduct or other failure occurred;
                             (b)   the relevant remediation period; and



© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                      Page 33
                                                                      REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




                             (c)   how to justify the assumptions using internal data (i.e. a sample of
                                   actual data from the affected consumer cohort) and/or reputable external
                                   data sources.

              RG 277.86      ASIC has previously provided guidance about the Reserve Bank of Australia
                             (RBA) cash rate plus 6% being acceptable—particularly in the context of
                             financial advice or investment type remediations where licensees are unable
                             to calculate the actual foregone returns or interest. Licensees may continue
                             to use this rate if it is beneficial to consumers and justified in the
                             circumstances.

                                   Note: The use of the RBA cash rate plus 6% does not imply that a remediation outcome
                                   has the same nature as a Federal Court post-judgment outcome.

              RG 277.87      Example 12–Example 17 illustrate how licensees might apply assumptions
                             that are beneficial to consumers in different circumstances. Licensees should
                             document their decision and rationale, and inform consumers that
                             assumptions have been used in the calculation.

                              Example 12: Applying assumptions to calculate interest incurred in an
                              insurance remediation

                              Greenworth Insurers Pty Ltd (Greenworth) discovered that a number of its
                              customers had been mis-sold life insurance and were ineligible to claim.

                              Approximately 6% of affected customers paid for their insurance policy
                              using a credit card issued by other financial institutions. These customers
                              may have incurred interest on their card in relation to their purchase.
                              When determining an appropriate remediation outcome, Greenworth
                              decided that, rather than trying to access records and calculate the actual
                              credit card interest rate for each affected customer, it would use
                              assumptions and apply the highest purchase interest rate available over
                              the remediation period (20.49%).

                              Commentary
                              This is an example of how a licensee used assumptions that benefited
                              consumers when calculating the interest incurred by the consumer. The
                              use of assumptions also increased the efficiency of the remediation.

                              Example 13: Applying assumptions to calculate foregone interest in
                              an insurance remediation

                              Flora Insurance (Flora) was conducting a remediation involving the sale of
                              its income protection insurance policies. A number of consumers had
                              purchased policies on the basis of false and misleading representations by
                              Flora representatives about their eligibility. When some of these consumers
                              went to make a claim, they were rejected. As part of the remediation, Flora
                              reviewed all the rejected claims made by consumers within scope. Flora
                              fulfilled the claims by mis-sold policy holders and added a foregone interest
                              component to compensate consumers for the delay in paying out the claim.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                               Page 34
                                                                    REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




                              In these circumstances, Flora applied the 10-year Government bond rate
                              plus 3% as prescribed in the Insurance Contracts Act and the Insurance
                              Contracts Regulations from the date the claim ought to have been paid to
                              the date of the remediation payment.

                              Commentary

                              It was appropriate for the licensee to apply the interest rate prescribed in
                              the Insurance Contracts Act and the Insurance Contracts Regulations.

                              Example 14: Applying assumptions to calculate foregone interest in a
                              banking remediation

                              In January 2019, EVI Bank (EVI) discovered that it had underpaid interest
                              to consumers in its savings products between 2015 and 2017. A number of
                              these consumers had since closed their accounts. EVI was able to
                              calculate each consumer’s actual foregone interest up until they closed
                              their account. EVI was unable to calculate actuals for foregone interest
                              after consumers closed their accounts, so instead applied assumptions
                              beneficial to consumers.
                              EVI assumed that consumers who had exited its savings products would
                              have likely put their funds into savings products with other providers, so it
                              consulted publicly available data published by the RBA, specifically
                              Statistical Table F4—Retail deposit and investment rates. EVI made an
                              assumption beneficial to consumers by referring to the average interest
                              rates for three-year term deposits over the remediation review period. To
                              minimise the risk of under-compensation (e.g. due to some consumers
                              potentially putting their money in higher interest savings products), EVI
                              added a 1.5% buffer to these average rates. EVI used these rates
                              (calculated daily, compounded monthly) to calculate foregone interest from
                              each consumer’s exit date to the remediation payment date.
                              Commentary
                              This is an example of how a licensee can use assumptions to calculate the
                              interest a consumer would have received but for the misconduct or other
                              failure. By choosing the average three-year term deposit rate and adding a
                              small buffer, the licensee minimised the risk of under-compensation.

                              Example 15: Applying assumptions to calculate interest incurred in a
                              home loan remediation

                              Abacus Bank (Abacus) discovered in early 2019 that it had mischarged
                              fees to some of its home loan customers’ accounts for more than nine
                              years. This would have affected the amount of interest the customers paid
                              on the principal of the loan.
                              Abacus was able to determine the actual interest incurred since January
                              2012 within the product. However, it had large gaps in its records with
                              respect to the affected customers’ applicable variable interest rates
                              between January 2010 and December 2011. Abacus assessed the
                              available internal and external data, including the distribution and change in
                              interest rates over that period, and decided to use each customer’s last
                              known interest rate (i.e. the rate applied in January 2012) to account for the
                              remaining two years.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                      Page 35
                                                                    REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




                              Commentary
                              This is an example of how a licensee used assumptions to calculate the
                              interest incurred by the consumer as a result of the misconduct or other
                              failure. These assumptions benefited consumers and made up for absent
                              records.
                              There was some risk that a consumer was charged slightly higher interest
                              between 2010 and 2011 than they were in 2012. In this case, several
                              factors already existed that mitigated this risk, including:
                              • the low variability and stability of interest rates during the remediation
                                review period;
                              • the licensee being able to use some internal (as opposed to external)
                                data; and
                              • the licensee having some relevant interest rate data specific to each
                                consumer (as opposed to using an average).
                              These factors meant that the assumption appropriately minimised the risk
                              of under-compensation, and further assumptions beneficial to consumers
                              (such as the addition of an interest rate buffer) were not necessary.

                              Example 16: Applying assumptions to calculate foregone returns in a
                              superannuation remediation

                              In 2020, YAK Super (YAK) discovered an error in the calculation of
                              investment and administration fees. It commenced a remediation to
                              compensate members for losses incurred since the error began in 2009.

                              Some members, however, had since rolled their superannuation over to a
                              new fund, and YAK no longer has records of the rollover. As it was not
                              possible to calculate the actual returns the former member would have
                              received had the misconduct or other failure not occurred, YAK decided to
                              apply assumptions. YAK compared publicly available Australian
                              superannuation fund performance data since 2009 to its own returns and
                              found that its own returns were lower on average over the relevant period.
                              Based on this information, it decided to apply the RBA cash rate plus 6%,
                              calculated and compounded daily to account for the foregone returns from
                              the date of rollover. This rate equated to the average superannuation fund
                              returns between 2009 and 2020 rounded up (i.e. the rate included a small
                              additional interest buffer) to minimise the risk of under-compensation.

                              Commentary

                              It was appropriate to use the RBA cash rate plus 6% as it was beneficial to
                              consumers and minimised the risk of under-compensation, based on the
                              data available and the relevant period.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                      Page 36
                                                                    REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




                              Example 17: Applying assumptions to calculate foregone returns in a
                              financial advice remediation

                              XYZ Bank (XYZ) initiated a remediation to return fees to clients who had
                              paid for an advice service that was not provided to them.

                              For most of the affected clients, XYZ repaid the fee, plus an amount for the
                              foregone returns or interest or earnings the client would have received if
                              not for the misconduct or other failure.

                              However, for a very small group of affected clients, XYZ was unable to
                              accurately determine the foregone returns or interest component. This was
                              because the relevant data was held by external product issuers, and XYZ
                              had failed to keep adequate client records and files.

                              XYZ decided to apply assumptions beneficial to consumers. It considered
                              the available internal and external investment yield data, the significant
                              variability in the types of investments held by its clients, and the need to
                              compensate its consumers in a timely way. Having considered these
                              factors, XYZ decided to apply the RBA cash rate plus 6% (calculated and
                              compounded daily) to calculate foregone returns or interest.

                              Commentary

                              It was appropriate for the licensee to use assumptions because it was
                              unable to accurately determine the actual foregone returns or interest. The
                              RBA cash rate plus 6% benefited consumers as it minimised the risk of
                              under-compensation based on the available internal and external data.


                             Non-monetary remedies

              RG 277.88      Non-monetary remedies may be appropriate in some circumstances—for
                             example, if consumers:
                             (a)   received non-compliant advice;
                             (b)   were placed in an inappropriate product;
                             (c)   were mis-sold a product;
                             (d)   misunderstood key features of a product due to inadequate or
                                   misleading disclosure or marketing; or
                             (e)   were subject to the misconduct or other failure but have not yet suffered
                                   a monetary loss.

              RG 277.89      Non-monetary remedies may include things like moving, or assisting to
                             move, consumers into more appropriate products, voiding or varying
                             contracts (such as waiving eligibility criteria), correcting inaccurate
                             information, or providing other forms of rectification, assistance or support.

              RG 277.90      If it is not possible to move a consumer out of an inappropriate product (e.g.
                             because the consumer is unresponsive), licensees should take reasonable
                             steps to ensure the consumer is not disadvantaged: see Table 2 for further
                             information on remedies.



© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                      Page 37
                                                                    REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




              RG 277.91      Licensees should consider the affected consumer or cohorts of consumers’
                             circumstances in determining what other non-monetary remedies or
                             outcomes may be appropriate. For example:
                             (a)   providing legal or other assistance (see RG 277.92–RG 277.94);
                             (b)   postponing or ceasing action (see RG 277.95–RG 277.97); or
                             (c)   pausing or waiving statutory limitation periods (see RG 277.98–
                                   RG 277.100).

                              Example 18: When a non-monetary remedy may be appropriate

                              David is 42 years old, has no dependants and owns a house with a mortgage
                              of $550,000. He recently inherited $100,000 following the death of a relative.

                              David sought advice from Harvey, an adviser at Green and Brown Advisory
                              Services (Green and Brown), about what to do with the inheritance. David
                              was asked to answer a series of questions that were designed to help
                              Harvey understand David’s personal circumstances, priorities and risk
                              profile.

                              The results of the questionnaire showed that David had a conservative risk
                              profile and his priorities included reducing debt and saving for retirement.
                              Despite this, Harvey recommended that David invest all of his inheritance
                              in a high-risk managed investment scheme.

                              When the firm reviewed the advice given to David, it determined that David
                              received advice that did not address his personal circumstances and risk
                              profile. However, given favourable market conditions, the managed
                              investment scheme that was recommended to David had performed well
                              over the past few years and had resulted in a gain that outweighed the
                              benefit David would have received if he had been advised to pay the
                              inheritance into his mortgage or superannuation fund.

                              David did not suffer a monetary loss. However, Green and Brown explained
                              to David that he had not received appropriate advice and that an alternative
                              strategy would be more appropriate for him, assuming his circumstances
                              and risk profile had not changed.

                              David was offered a free review by one of Green and Brown’s advisers, or
                              a reimbursement of fees if David chose to see an adviser from another firm.

                              Commentary

                              It was appropriate for Green and Brown to offer a free review so that the
                              client may be placed in a product appropriate for his circumstances and risk
                              profile.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                      Page 38
                                                                    REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




                              Example 19: When a non-monetary remedy and compensation for
                              non-financial or indirect financial loss may be appropriate

                              From 2018 to 2022, Wilson Online Loans Pty Ltd (Wilson) had a processing
                              error that meant some customers’ loan repayments were not credited to
                              their personal loan accounts for over six months. This meant that Wilson
                              incorrectly recorded on consumers’ credit records that they were behind on
                              repayments and, in some instances, even default listed consumers.

                              When Alberta applied for a new car loan, she was rejected because her
                              credit record contained a Wilson default listing. As a result of the rejected
                              application, Alberta said she was forced to delay starting a new job, which
                              required access to a personal vehicle.

                              Alberta lodged a complaint with Wilson. It apologised to her and notified the
                              credit reporting body of the inaccurate information. Wilson also refunded all
                              late fees and other charges incurred as a result of the error and provided
                              Alberta with some additional compensation for the inconvenience caused.

                              After receiving the complaint, Wilson reviewed all notifications sent to the
                              credit reporting body and requested that it update any inaccurate or
                              misleading information contained on credit reports. Wilson also sent
                              communications to each customer advising them about what had
                              happened, and that they could contact Wilson and seek further
                              compensation if they had been personally impacted by the credit reporting
                              error.

                              Commentary

                              It was appropriate for Wilson to provide a monetary remedy for any late
                              fees and other charges incurred as a result of the processing error, as well
                              as the non-monetary remedies of correcting the inaccurate information on
                              the affected consumer’s credit reports and notifying the relevant credit
                              reporting body.

                              It was also appropriate for Wilson to provide additional compensation to
                              Alberta since Wilson was aware of the inconvenience and indirect financial
                              loss caused by the error.

                             Providing legal or other assistance

              RG 277.92      Licensees should consider whether it is appropriate to offer assistance to
                             consumers to seek their own independent professional advice about the
                             remediation and proposed remedy. Depending on the nature of the
                             remediation, financial, legal and/or taxation advice might be advisable for
                             all, or a class of, the consumers receiving remediation.

              RG 277.93      This might be appropriate when the remediation or underlying issues are
                             complex and the value of the remediation offer is large, or the consumer is
                             offered a choice of outcomes that could have significant financial
                             implications. In these circumstances, the consumer might reasonably want to
                             test the offer but may not have the resources to do so.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                      Page 39
                                                                        REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




              RG 277.94      Assistance could come in different forms—for example:
                             (a)   offering to reimburse the consumer for professional advice sought by
                                   the consumer (e.g. advice from a lawyer, taxation accountant or
                                   financial adviser);
                             (b)   offering the services of a group of professionals independent of the
                                   business to provide advice to the consumer, free of charge (e.g.
                                   contracting a consumer legal centre, or financial counselling
                                   organisation to assist); or
                             (c)   offering to cover the costs of any adverse tax consequences as a result
                                   of the remediation payment.

                             Postponing or ceasing action

              RG 277.95      When the misconduct or other failure relates to a credit contract or lease, it
                             may sometimes lead or contribute to an affected consumer currently being in
                             arrears or suffering financial hardship (i.e. a consumer has been provided
                             unsuitable credit and is now in default). In these circumstances, licensees
                             should refrain from commencing or continuing with enforcement
                             proceedings or giving default notices (enforcement action) until:
                             (a)   the remediation outcome has been determined; or
                             (b)   where applicable, any resultant IDR and AFCA complaints have been
                                   finalised and a response provided.

                                   Note: For requirements relating to postponing or ceasing action during IDR, see
                                   RG 271.89–RG 271.90, and at AFCA, see AFCA’s Rules at Rule A7.

              RG 277.96      Fair, timely and effective remediation can mitigate any additional risks that
                             some consumers may be further disadvantaged by the postponement of
                             enforcement action.

              RG 277.97      The only exception to this is when the statute of limitations for the
                             enforcement proceedings is about to expire. In such cases, proceedings may
                             be commenced but should be stayed until the remediation outcome has been
                             determined or any resultant complaints to IDR or AFCA have been finalised.
                             Following these processes it might be determined that a fair outcome is for
                             the enforcement proceeding to be withdrawn.

                             Pausing or waiving the statutory limitation period

              RG 277.98      Prolonged remediation outcomes will sometimes surpass the statutory
                             limitation period or AFCA time limit for a consumer to take their own action.
                             This means that consumers are put in the difficult position of predicting
                             whether the remediation will satisfactorily compensate their detriment, or
                             whether they should separately pursue their own cause of action.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                                    Page 40
                                                                         REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




              RG 277.99      When a consumer’s ability to take individual action within the required time
                             limit has been impacted by the existence of a remediation process, we
                             consider that a licensee should waive the limitation period. Licensees may
                             need to discuss this with their relevant PI insurer.

              RG 277.100     Licensees should consider whether other limits (e.g. monetary) that may
                             constrain AFCA’s jurisdiction to consider a complaint about a remediation
                             should also be waived.
                                   Note: AFCA maintains a right to refuse to accept a complaint that does not fall within
                                   its time or other limits, notwithstanding a licensee’s willingness to waive those limits.


                             Tax consequences of payments for consumers

              RG 277.101     Some remediation payments will have tax consequences for consumers.
                             Licensees should, where relevant:
                             (a)   inform consumers that the remediation payment may result in tax
                                   consequences;
                             (b)   clearly communicate the different components of any remediation
                                   payment that might be subject to different taxation treatment
                                   (e.g. refund versus interest);
                             (c)   clearly communicate the time period that payments relate to; and
                             (d)   counsel consumers to seek advice, and for larger or complex remediation
                                   payments, consider providing consumers with support to seek that advice.

              RG 277.102     Remediation payments can result in different tax outcomes. The tax treatment
                             of remediation payments will depend on factors such as who has the legal
                             right to the compensation, what the money is paid for (is it a refund, loss of
                             return on investment, or interest) and whether the consumer has retained or
                             disposed of the investment. In the context of superannuation, it will also
                             depend on whether the payment increases the capital of the fund and whether
                             they exceed the member’s personal contributions cap.

              RG 277.103     Licensees should consider the ATO’s general guidance about the tax
                             treatment of certain remediation payments in the first instance, such as:
                             (a)   Compensation received by super funds from financial institutions and
                                   insurance providers;
                             (b)   Deficient financial advice;
                             (c)   Fees where no service is provided;
                             (d)   Overcharged insurance premiums;
                             (e)   PAYG withholding and reporting obligations relating to remediation
                                   payments; and
                             (f)   Super contribution caps.
                                   Note: For more information on engaging with the ATO, see RG 277.244–RG 277.246.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                                     Page 41
                                                                    REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




F          Methodologies for determining the scope and
           appropriate outcome


                              Key points

                              Licensees must decide what methodology to use to determine the scope of
                              the remediation (see Section D) and appropriate outcome (see Section E).
                              For example, licensees may:
                              • conduct data analyses, file reviews (see RG 277.104–RG 277.112); and/or
                              • use assumptions that are beneficial to consumers—for example, to save
                                time and program costs, remediate more efficiently and/or make up for
                                absent records (see RG 277.113–RG 277.141).

                              For larger or more complex remediations, licensees should consider
                              whether there are cohorts of consumers who share common features or
                              experiences (to enable triaging of consumers): see RG 277.142–RG 277.144.

                              Licensees should consider their obligations when determining the appropriate
                              methodology to use, including whether it is efficient, honest and fair.




Conducting file reviews
              RG 277.104     In some remediations a file review or some form of individual assessment of
                             advice or eligibility will be needed to accurately determine who has been
                             affected by the misconduct or other failure and the loss suffered (if any). For
                             example, file reviews might be necessary to determine whether promised
                             products or services were delivered competently and in accordance with the
                             law, if at all.

              RG 277.105     Licensees may also consider that conducting sample testing of files is
                             necessary to understand the extent and impact of the failure. A combination
                             of file reviews and using assumptions can also increase the efficiency of a
                             remediation, or may be needed if there are absent records. For more
                             information on using assumptions, see RG 277.113–RG 277.141.


                             The file review process

              RG 277.106     It is essential that consumer files, or the quality of services provided to the
                             consumer, are reviewed in a consistent and fair manner. Licensees should
                             develop principles and guidance for reviewing files or the provision of
                             services to ensure that this is the case.

              RG 277.107     The review process should not be unnecessarily complex. Templates are a
                             useful way to guide reviewers and assist in record keeping. However, the



© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                       Page 42
                                                                    REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




                             review process should not be a ‘tick-a-box’ exercise—it should be flexible
                             enough to make changes where lessons are learned.

              RG 277.108     Where there are indications of fraudulent or misleading or deceptive
                             behaviour by a representative, licensees should be prepared to look beyond
                             the face of the file to determine whether what the file suggests occurred
                             actually did occur.

              RG 277.109     Licensees should have already identified consumers who may be suffering
                             hardship or have special circumstances, and these consumers’ files should be
                             reviewed as a priority.


                             File reviewers and peer review

              RG 277.110     Files should be reviewed by people who meet the training and competence
                             requirements to provide the services or products to which the file relates.
                             The more complex the underlying products and services provided, the more
                             training and competence will be required to review the files.

              RG 277.111     After an initial review of a file has occurred and a determination made, in
                             some cases a file should be ‘peer reviewed’ by another appropriately
                             qualified and experienced person to ensure consistency and fairness. In many
                             cases a peer reviewer will be internal to the business; in others, such as when
                             there are no suitably qualified people available, external assistance may be
                             required.

              RG 277.112     We do not expect that peer reviewing, or regular peer reviewing, will be
                             required in all circumstances. Whether peer reviewing is appropriate will
                             depend on the nature of the misconduct or other failure, the size of the
                             remediation and the complexity of the consumer files. It may also be
                             appropriate when the remediation is still at its early stages and reviewers are
                             developing ways to ensure that reviews are conducted consistently.



Using assumptions in a remediation
              RG 277.113     To save time and program costs, remediate more efficiently and/or make up
                             for absent records, licensees may consider the use of assumptions when they
                             are beneficial to consumers.

                             Giving consumers the benefit of the doubt when using
                             assumptions

              RG 277.114     There are two key circumstances in which assumptions may be applied:
                             (a)   when determining which consumers should be included within the
                                   scope of the remediation; and




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                      Page 43
                                                                       REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




                             (b)   when calculating the amount of actual or potential loss, including
                                   foregone returns or interest.

              RG 277.115     Overall, licensees should only use assumptions in a remediation if they are
                             beneficial to consumers and will result in an outcome that:
                             (a)   returns affected consumers as closely as possible to the position they
                                   would have otherwise been in had the misconduct or other failure not
                                   occurred; and
                             (b)   is evidence based and well documented.

              RG 277.116     When we refer to assumptions that are ‘beneficial to consumers’, or ‘give
                             consumers the benefit of the doubt’, we mean that, when there is uncertainty,
                             the assumptions should:
                             (a)   minimise the risk of any affected consumers falling out of scope (when
                                   identifying affected consumers); and
                             (b)   benefit consumers by minimising the risk of under-compensation (when
                                   determining remedies).
                                   Note: Licensees are not expected to over-compensate all consumers.

              RG 277.117     Using assumptions will also likely save licensees time and resources in
                             conducting the remediation that would ordinarily be associated with
                             analysing all records or conducting individual file reviews. This means the
                             use of assumptions will benefit the licensee as well as the consumer. If there
                             is an element of over-compensation for some affected consumers, this
                             program cost saving should be taken into account when determining what is
                             an appropriate overall outcome.

                             Determining when to use assumptions

              RG 277.118     When using assumptions, the outcome should be beneficial to consumers to
                             ensure that the licensee is complying with its obligations to act efficiently,
                             honestly and fairly. Depending on the circumstances, it may be more
                             appropriate to undertake individual file reviews (this could be for certain
                             cohorts or all those potentially affected).

              RG 277.119     Licensees need to be able to justify their assumptions with available evidence.
                             A licensee should advise consumers where appropriate that it has used
                             assumptions to determine their individual loss calculation, so that the
                             consumer has an opportunity to seek further information or make a
                             complaint.

              RG 277.120     A decision to use assumptions may need to be balanced with other factors
                             and considered in the context of the licensee’s other legal duties and
                             obligations: for more details on the interaction between superannuation and
                             remediation, see the appendix to this guide.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                         Page 44
                                                                    REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




              RG 277.121     Licensees remediating unit pricing errors should refer to RG 94 when using
                             estimates.


                             Developing the assumptions

              RG 277.122     When developing assumptions, there are a number of factors licensees
                             should consider to ensure that they are beneficial to consumers. For example,
                             licensees should consider the variability within the affected consumer
                             portfolio, including between consumer cohorts, and whether different
                             assumptions should apply.

              RG 277.123     There will be limited circumstances when it will be appropriate to use a
                             median or mean as the basis for an assumption. It may only be appropriate
                             when the standard deviation of losses is low, and/or the skew of the
                             distribution of losses minimises the risk of under-compensation.

              RG 277.124     There will generally be a margin of error associated with the use of
                             assumptions. Licensees should minimise the margin of error and the risk of
                             under-compensation. Ultimately, it is a matter for licensees to decide what
                             margin of error and risk is fair and appropriate in the circumstances.

              RG 277.125     Some of the factors that may indicate that the assumptions are not beneficial
                             to consumers include (but are not limited to):
                             (a)   unjustifiably narrow scoping;
                             (b)   unjustified discounting or inappropriate averaging;
                             (c)   if the outcome of using assumptions appears to commercially benefit
                                   the licensee over the consumer;
                             (d)   if evidence has been excluded or new information ignored that may
                                   change the assumptions; or
                             (e)   if the licensee has not taken reasonable steps to use all of relevant data
                                   that is reasonably available to them.


                             Using assumptions when records are missing

                             When record-keeping obligations have been breached

              RG 277.126     Licensees have a range of record-keeping obligations: see RG 277.296–
                             RG 277.304. Breaches of record-keeping obligations can have serious
                             consequences for any subsequent remediation.

              RG 277.127     If a licensee has breached its record-keeping obligations, and as a result is
                             unsure whether a consumer has suffered a loss, the licensee must make
                             assumptions that are beneficial to consumers where there are reasonable
                             grounds to suspect loss may have occurred. It may not be efficient, honest
                             and fair if consumers are disadvantaged because a licensee has failed to keep




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                       Page 45
                                                                        REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




                             proper records in line with its record-keeping obligations, or if an authorised
                             representative of the licensee has failed to comply with its obligations to
                             provide records on request.

                                   Note: See INFO 232 for the correct approach to remediations for fees-for-no service. If
                                   the licensee cannot identify reliable evidence that an annual review was provided, it is
                                   expected that it will refund the fees paid by a consumer.

              RG 277.128     Although it may be reasonable to ask a consumer for information in some
                             cases, if the consumer is unable to fill the gaps in the licensee’s records then
                             assumptions that are beneficial to the consumer should be made when there
                             are reasonable grounds to suspect loss may have occurred.

                              Example 20: Record-keeping breach—assumption beneficial to
                              consumers

                              MintVest Bank (MintVest) discovered a systems error that meant that some
                              of the benefits promised as part of a financial package were not delivered.
                              MintVest had failed to keep sufficient records consistent with its obligations,
                              so it was unclear which customers had received what benefits from the
                              financial package.

                              An assumption was made that no customer had received the benefits from
                              the financial package. All customers were compensated for the cost of the
                              package.

                              Commentary

                              This is an example of an assumption that is beneficial to consumers where
                              a licensee has breached its record-keeping obligations.


                              Example 21: Record-keeping breach—assumption beneficial to
                              consumers and the licensee

                              MintVest Bank (MintVest) was conducting another remediation for misconduct
                              that occurred between November 2021 and August 2022. It was unclear
                              whether customers had already received compensation through the internal
                              or external complaints process because they had not been fully documenting
                              their complaints. Therefore, rather than asking the customer, an assumption
                              was made that no customer had been previously compensated.

                              Commentary
                              This is an example of an assumption that is beneficial to consumers where
                              a licensee has breached its record-keeping obligations (it became an
                              enforceable requirement to record all complaints from 5 October 2021). It is
                              also beneficial to the licensee in terms of reduced time and costs in trying
                              to reconstruct complaints records.

                              Example 22: Record-keeping breach—assumption not beneficial to
                              consumers

                              Salaried advisers of advice licensee Rudisao Advisers (Rudisao) provide
                              personal financial advice to Rudisao clients, including advice to switch
                              superannuation products. Through random quality checks, Rudisao



© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                                   Page 46
                                                                    REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




                              recently discovered that some of these advisers may not have met their
                              obligation to undertake a reasonable investigation of new products when
                              recommending a switch. As a result, some advisers were identified as high
                              risk and relevant audio files and documentation were reviewed.

                              The quality of some audio files was poor and records are incomplete.
                              However, Rudisao decided that it could not conclude that problematic advice
                              had been given based on the information available and assumed that if no
                              complaints had been made, then the clients must be satisfied with the advice.

                              Commentary
                              This is not an assumption that is beneficial to consumers. Rudisao should
                              not assume that because a client has not complained that they should not
                              be included in the scope of the remediation. Given Rudisao has breached
                              its record-keeping obligations, the licensee should assume that clients who
                              received advice from high-risk advisers in situations where records are
                              incomplete are within the scope of the remediation.

                             When a remediation review period extends beyond the record-retention
                             requirements

              RG 277.129     If licensees are maintaining adequate systems and processes to identify and
                             remediate problems when they arise, rarely will a remediation review period
                             extend beyond record-retention requirements (which is generally seven
                             years). This means that there will rarely be a need to consider the use of
                             assumptions to account for absent records beyond seven years.

              RG 277.130     If the remediation review period extends beyond the relevant record-
                             retention requirements, it may not be possible to access or retrieve certain
                             records. Records may have been destroyed under relevant privacy laws.

              RG 277.131     If records have been destroyed in good faith, this is likely to affect a
                             licensee’s ability to effectively remediate for older misconduct or other
                             failures. However, licensees should consider whether it is possible and
                             reasonable to apply assumptions that are beneficial to consumers to fill in the
                             necessary gaps.

              RG 277.132     There may be circumstances when it is not possible to apply such
                             assumptions—for example, if affected consumers cannot be identified with
                             the data available. If that occurs, the licensee may make a residual
                             remediation payment if the profit made can be reasonably ascertained: see
                             RG 277.194–RG 277.197.

              RG 277.133     If affected consumers are known or can be reasonably identified, then
                             generally licensees should use assumptions to calculate the loss and
                             compensate the consumers.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                      Page 47
                                                                    REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




                              Example 23: Applying assumptions beyond record-retention
                              requirements

                              In 2020, Influence Insurance (Influence) discovered a manual processing
                              error that resulted in duplicate home and contents insurance policies being
                              created in its operating system when consumers amended their existing
                              policies. An investigation found this misconduct or other failure had begun
                              in 2003.

                              Influence was able to identify the affected consumers and refund the
                              additional premiums the consumers had paid plus interest between 2008
                              and 2020.

                              For the period between 2003 and 2007, Influence was able to access
                              legacy systems and conduct a desktop review to identify the consumers
                              who had likely paid for duplicate policies. However, the data on the
                              additional premiums paid by individual consumers was unavailable.

                              Considering that Influence could reasonably identify the consumers who
                              had likely been affected, it decided to analyse its financial reporting data
                              and refund the consumers the mean premium value paid for home and
                              contents policies over the relevant period where there were no records.

                              Commentary

                              In these circumstances, it was appropriate for Influence to triangulate the
                              data it held within the organisation to develop an assumption that would be
                              beneficial to consumers, given the records it had available.

                              Example 24: Applying assumptions to account for absent records

                              Consumers who had a business lending facility with Lussen Loans (Lussen)
                              were required to obtain a ‘key person’ life insurance policy. In some cases,
                              this policy was assigned to Lussen as a policy owner. For the last 10 years,
                              when Lussen was the policy owner, correspondence received by Lussen
                              from insurers may not have been provided to consumers. This meant that
                              consumers may have unknowingly continued to pay for the policy after the
                              relevant business facility was repaid and the condition lifted.

                              Instead of relying on insurance providers to extract historical premium data
                              and details of premiums actually paid (especially because the insurers may
                              not have retained this information), Lussen determined that the most recent
                              premium paid was the highest premium the consumer would have paid
                              over the life of the policy. It used that assumption to determine the base
                              refund rate for each consumer for each year of impact.

                              Commentary

                              This is an example of how a licensee made up for absent records by using
                              an assumption that was beneficial to consumers. It also significantly
                              increased the efficiency of the remediation, which was beneficial to the
                              licensee.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                      Page 48
                                                                    REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




                              Example 25: Applying assumptions to account for absent records

                              Bellen Bank (Bellen) discovered in 2014 that it had failed to apply benefits,
                              including fee waivers (e.g. a waiver on advice fees), interest rate discounts
                              and bonus interest on ‘BB+’ products for a period of 10 years. The
                              remediation methodology incorporated a broad range of assumptions to
                              account for a lack of data. For example:
                              • Many fee types shared the same codes and it was not possible based
                                on the available data to determine which fees were eligible for a discount.
                                An assumption was made that all fee types were within the scope of the
                                remediation and were refunded plus interest.
                              • Due to a lack of records between 2004 and 2008, it was not always
                                possible to determine whether a consumer was erroneously charged an
                                advice fee when they were eligible for a waiver. A sample of available
                                files showed that 78% of consumers did not receive the eligible waiver.
                                When unsure or when the advice file was unavailable, Bellen assumed
                                that the advice fee should have been waived. It refunded 100% of the
                                fees plus interest.

                              Commentary

                              This is an example of how a licensee used the information available,
                              despite the lack of complete or accurate records, to develop an assumption
                              that was beneficial to consumers.


                             Using assumptions for efficiency purposes

              RG 277.134     Assumptions that are to the benefit of consumers can also be used to increase
                             the efficiency of a remediation, even when a licensee has good quality
                             records.

              RG 277.135     Such assumptions can offer a balance between timeliness and accuracy
                             without a trade-off in quality. If considering this approach, licensees should
                             first ensure that the considerations at RG 277.115–RG 277.116 are satisfied.

              RG 277.136     Fund managers of managed investment schemes and superannuation trustees
                             should refer to RG 94 when remediating unit pricing errors using scheme or
                             trust property.

                              Example 26: Applying assumptions to increase efficiency

                              Vault Advisers (Vault) discovered one of its advisers failed to deliver
                              ongoing advice services to financial advice clients who were charged fees
                              for those services. Vault reviewed all of the adviser’s client files, and where
                              it did not find evidence that the adviser had provided the required services,
                              it refunded the fees plus interest to the clients.
                              Separately, Vault also sampled its other advisers and practices to determine
                              if they had engaged in fees-for-no-service conduct. Vault subsequently
                              discovered a cohort of clients who had likely received no service from certain
                              advisers and practices.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                      Page 49
                                                                    REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




                              Instead of reviewing each client file in that cohort to determine whether the
                              service had actually been provided, which would have taken considerable
                              time, effort and resources due to the complexity of the matter, Vault decided
                              to make an assumption and refund 100% of that cohort’s advice fees plus
                              interest for the relevant period.

                              For the remaining clients of the advisers and practices, Vault undertook
                              individual file reviews. If the files did not contain evidence that the advisers
                              provided the ongoing services to clients, Vault refunded 100% of those
                              client’s advice fees plus interest for the relevant period.

                              Commentary

                              It was appropriate for the licensee to compensate clients where there was
                              no evidence that advice had been provided. The approach taken for other
                              advisers and practices is an example of using a combination of
                              assumptions that were beneficial to consumers as well as an example of
                              using file reviews to increase overall efficiency and accuracy.

                              Example 27: Applying assumptions to increase efficiency

                              Hondo Bank (Hondo) discovered that, from December 2017 to November
                              2019, an error with the calculation of daily interest on commercial overdraft
                              facilities occurred intermittently. Hondo decided it was more efficient to
                              include all of its customers who held the overdraft facility during that time
                              period in the remediation, rather than seeking to identify specific customers
                              affected by the error.

                              Commentary

                              This is an example of how a licensee used an assumption to increase
                              efficiency and benefit consumers.

                              Example 28: Applying assumptions to increase efficiency

                              Jost Sky Pty Ltd (Jost Sky) is a large financial advice firm. It was
                              conducting a remediation after charging incorrect fees since the
                              introduction of a new advice package two years ago.

                              Instead of undertaking a file review to understand exactly how much every
                              consumer was overcharged, Jost Sky decided it would be more efficient to
                              apply an assumption and automatically refund all fees paid below a set
                              dollar threshold plus interest. For the remaining affected consumers who
                              were charged fees above the threshold, Jost Sky conducted individual file
                              reviews to determine whether they had been mischarged.

                              Commentary

                              This is an example of how a licensee used a combination of an assumption
                              and individual file reviews to increase efficiency and benefit consumers.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                       Page 50
                                                                       REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




                             Justifying the assumptions

              RG 277.137     Before applying an assumption, licensees must ensure it is evidence based,
                             documented and appropriately justified. ASIC may request these records if
                             necessary.

              RG 277.138     Regardless of size, licensees can think creatively about where they may be
                             able to source data from across their organisation, or from service providers
                             or consultants, and what that data could tell them about their consumers, and
                             how it may inform assumptions.

              RG 277.139     For example, in cases where licensees are applying assumptions to account
                             for absent records, a licensee should consider:
                             (a)   what available data could inform an evidence base for the period when
                                   records are incomplete;
                                   Note: The evidence base for these assumptions may differ from the evidence base
                                   available for assumptions used for efficiency purposes only (where accurate and
                                   complete records exist).

                             (b)   whether other internal or external information could be triangulated to
                                   inform scoping; or
                             (c)   if it is known or suspected that a consumer has held the relevant product
                                   for a longer period of time than there is data available for, this could be
                                   factored into assumptions about how far back the remediation will go.


                             Monitoring the assumptions

              RG 277.140     If new information arises or becomes reasonably available during or
                             following the remediation that suggests that any assumptions made are no
                             longer beneficial to consumers, licensees should revisit the assumptions and
                             consider whether any supplementary compensation is necessary.

              RG 277.141     ASIC may request the remediation monitoring data if necessary.



Segmenting and triaging consumers
              RG 277.142     For larger or more complex remediations, licensees should consider whether
                             there are cohorts of consumers who share common features or experiences
                             that can be identified. The way a licensee decides to determine consumer
                             cohorts will depend on the specifics of the remediation and the
                             characteristics of those specific consumers—there is no ‘one-size-fits-all’
                             approach that can be used.

              RG 277.143     Licensees may wish to use consumer cohorts to triage consumers through the
                             remediation—at both the investigation stage and when determining and




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                               Page 51
                                                                    REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




                             delivering the remedy. This will help with the timeliness, efficiency and
                             fairness of the remediation.

              RG 277.144     It is appropriate for licensees to triage different consumer cohorts so that
                             licensees can begin providing remedies for some segments while still
                             completing the scoping of other segments. This decision could consider the
                             following:
                             (a)   cohorts that are the simplest or most complex to remediate;
                             (b)   cohorts that hold the largest number of affected consumers;
                             (c)   cohorts that are receiving the largest payments;
                             (d)   cohorts that the licensee has contact and/or payment details for; and/or
                             (e)   cohorts that are experiencing situational vulnerability (this may include
                                   financial difficulty or hardship).




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                      Page 52
                                                                        REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




G          Delivering an appropriate outcome


                              Key points

                              Delivering an appropriate outcome when conducting a remediation
                              generally involves:
                              • communicating effectively with consumers (see RG 277.145–
                                RG 277.152);
                              • applying ‘reasonable endeavours’ to make remediation payments (see
                                RG 277.153–RG 277.171);
                              • managing the interactions between remediation, IDR and AFCA (see
                                RG 277.172–RG 277.187); and
                              • dealing with money that cannot be returned to consumers, including
                                ensuring that no profit is retained (see RG 277.188–RG 277.197).

                              Licensees should generally not require settlement deeds in a remediation:
                              see RG 277.198–RG 277.202.




Communicating with consumers
              RG 277.145     The effectiveness and quality of communications to affected consumers
                             plays a significant role in determining the success or failure of the
                             remediation. Licensees should start planning the communications approach
                             early in the process: see Making it right, pp 6–12.

              RG 277.146     Licensees should have a communications plan that seeks to ensure affected
                             consumers:
                             (a)   understand what has happened;
                             (b)   are provided with updates when necessary and appropriate;
                             (c)   understand the remediation outcome and what it means for them,
                                   including how they can make further inquiries;
                             (d)   are able to easily follow any necessary calls to action, with support
                                   when needed (see RG 277.150–RG 277.152); and
                             (e)   are told how they can make a complaint about the remediation outcome
                                   (see RG 277.176).

                                   Note: For more detailed information on how to do this in practice, see Making it right,
                                   pp 7–10.

              RG 277.147     Licensees should decide the appropriate means of communicating with
                             affected consumers. This will include considering, among other things, the
                             timing and frequency of communications and the channel(s): see Making it
                             right, p 7. The approach can vary in any given remediation and should be


© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                                   Page 53
                                                                         REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




                             scaled appropriately: see Making it right, p 9. Writing communications with
                             good communication principles (see Making it right, Resource C), and using
                             a multi-channel approach, can help maximise reach and response rate.

                                   Note 1: Licensees subject to the notify, investigate and remediate obligations must
                                   adhere to the prescribed timeframes for communicating with affected consumers: see
                                   RG 277.310–RG 277.314.

                                   Note 2: Although contact preferences are important to consider, it should not restrict the
                                   communication channels utilised, especially if the consumer is non-responsive.

              RG 277.148     Staff who communicate verbally with consumers should be appropriately
                             trained and quality assurance processes should be used. Any material
                             communication that is provided to a consumer verbally should also be
                             followed up in writing within 10 business days.

              RG 277.149     Licensees should refer to Making it right for further guidance on how to take
                             a consumer-centred approach to communications, including how to test and
                             monitor communications, and adapt the plan when required.


                             ‘Calls to action’ in communications should be limited

              RG 277.150     A key principle of conducting a remediation is that it should minimise
                             complexity and consumer action. Accordingly, asking an affected or
                             potentially affected consumer to take any action (i.e. a ‘call to action’)
                             should be rare and should not be used to ask affected consumers who are
                             likely to fall within scope (to a reasonable degree of certainty) to opt in to a
                             remediation.

              RG 277.151     Generally, licensees should prioritise using assumptions when records are
                             absent rather than using a ‘call to action’, such as asking the affected or
                             potentially affected consumers to provide more information or evidence of
                             their loss. However, there may be times when a licensee will decide it is
                             unavoidable to ask a consumer for a response or information, or to take some
                             form of action in response to a communication (e.g. a communication that
                             asks an affected consumer to nominate a bank account).

              RG 277.152     For more information about calls to action and what to do if consumers do
                             not respond to a call to action, see Making it right (pp 7–9).



Applying ‘reasonable endeavours’ to making remediation payments
              RG 277.153     We expect licensees to apply ‘reasonable endeavours’ to contact and make
                             remediation payments to affected consumers, or to otherwise deliver the
                             remediation outcome if non-monetary.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                                    Page 54
                                                                        REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




              RG 277.154     What ‘reasonable endeavours’ are appropriate in the circumstances should
                             be determined on a case-by-case basis. In principle, reasonable endeavours
                             are not, for example:
                             (a)   prioritising timely finalisation over making successful contact and
                                   payment;
                             (b)   relying on one single communications channel if other forms of contact
                                   are reasonably available and the consumer is unresponsive; or
                             (c)   sending a cheque without tracking cashing rates (see RG 277.169–
                                   RG 277.171).

                                   Note 1: Superannuation trustees should refer to RG 277.165–RG 277.166 in the context
                                   of making payments to former members.

                                   Note 2: For further guidance on applying reasonable endeavours and making low-value
                                   compensation payments, see RG 277.160–RG 277.163.

              RG 277.155     Licensees may choose to triage affected consumers by segmenting
                             consumers into cohorts and making payments to the ‘easier’ cohorts or
                             cohorts experiencing situational vulnerability first.

              RG 277.156     Licensees subject to the notify, investigate and remediate obligations must
                             take reasonable steps to make remediation payments within 30 days of
                             completing the investigation if the consumer is eligible to receive payment.
                             Licensees may consider this guidance in meeting those obligations. If
                             remediation payments cannot be made within 30 days despite reasonable
                             steps, while the licensee may have complied with this specific obligation, the
                             broader obligations relating to the remediation still apply. This means
                             reasonable endeavours to make the payments may still need to continue
                             beyond the prescribed period.

                                   Note: For more information on the notify, investigate and remediate obligations, see
                                   RG 277.310–RG 277.314.


                             Obtaining up-to-date contact and payment information

              RG 277.157     Licensees should do what they can to improve the quality or accuracy of the
                             affected consumers’ contact and payment information. Licensees may wish
                             to conduct this process early (for some or all cohorts) to avoid delays when
                             making payments. Reasonable endeavours to obtain up-to-date contact and
                             payment information may include (but are not limited to):
                             (a)   utilising the expertise of recovery teams, where available;
                             (b)   matching data with information held in other parts of the organisation,
                                   where possible;
                             (c)   accessing or purchasing data from information merchants that might
                                   assist in locating consumers;




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                                  Page 55
                                                                       REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




                             (d)   contacting the representative, dealer or introducer who had initial
                                   contact with the consumer (where applicable); or
                             (e)   contracting external specialists to assist in finding current details of the
                                   consumer—this might be appropriate when larger amounts of money
                                   are owed.

              RG 277.158     In circumstances where licensees do need to obtain contact and payment
                             information directly from the consumer, the licensee should consider Making
                             it right (pp 6–8).

              RG 277.159     If licensees cannot find any current contact details or have not received a
                             response despite reasonable endeavours, licensees should lodge the money in
                             a relevant state, territory or Commonwealth unclaimed money regime or
                             make a residual remediation payment: see RG 277.188–RG 277.197.


                             Low-value compensation threshold

              RG 277.160     If licensees have current payment information on file (such as a bank
                             account, PayID or EFT details), remediation payments should be made
                             regardless of value and regardless of whether the consumer is a current or
                             former customer.

              RG 277.161     However, for former customers owed $5 or less (after interest) with no
                             current payment information on file, rather than making reasonable
                             endeavours to pay the money directly to the consumer, it is appropriate for
                             the licensee to instead automatically allocate the amounts towards a residual
                             remediation payment to a charity or not-for-profit organisation registered
                             with the ACNC (known as applying a ‘low-value compensation threshold’).

                                   Note: For unit pricing errors, RG 94 allows licensees to impose a $20 fixed dollar
                                   minimum to payments owed to former members or lower at the licensee’s discretion.

              RG 277.162     For all remaining current customers (and former customers owed more
                             than $5), licensees should apply reasonable endeavours to contact them.
                             What constitutes ‘reasonable endeavours’, including the number of contact
                             attempts, can be scalable based on value and will depend on the context (e.g.
                             the quality or accuracy of the contact information reasonably available, and
                             the steps already taken to update or enhance the information). If the money
                             cannot be returned following reasonable endeavours, licensees should lodge
                             it in an unclaimed money regime or make a residual remediation payment:
                             see RG 277.188–RG 277.197.

              RG 277.163     For remediations conducted by superannuation trustees or fund managers of
                             managed investment schemes using trust or scheme property, if a low-value
                             compensation threshold is applied the consolidated compensation amounts
                             under the threshold may be retained for the benefit of the beneficiaries
                             and/or unitholders of the same fund or scheme. A residual remediation
                             payment cannot be made using trust or scheme assets.


© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                               Page 56
                                                                    REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




                             Where to return remediation money

              RG 277.164     Where to return remediation money will depend on the nature of the
                             underlying product or service subject to the remediation, and the
                             circumstances of the affected consumer: see Table 3. For example, different
                             processes should be followed for money paid to superannuation fund
                             members or investors in pooled investment vehicles.

                             Making payments to former members of superannuation funds

              RG 277.165     Under s22 of the Superannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act
                             1999 (Unclaimed Money Act), superannuation trustees may pay an amount
                             held on behalf of a member, former member or non-member spouse to the
                             ATO if the trustee reasonably believes this is in the best financial interests of
                             the member, former member or non-member spouse. The ATO is then
                             required to take action in respect of amounts transferred to them, which may
                             include paying the amount to a member’s current superannuation account.

              RG 277.166     If a superannuation trustee has recent contact information for a former
                             member, generally trustees should at least take reasonable steps to provide
                             notice to the former member at their last known postal address, to give them
                             an opportunity to provide alternative instructions before the superannuation
                             trustee transfers any amounts to the ATO in accordance with the Unclaimed
                             Money Act: see Information Sheet 90 Notifying members about
                             superannuation transfers without consent (INFO 90).

                                   Note: The Supplementary Explanatory Memorandum to the Treasury Laws Amendment
                                   (Reuniting More Superannuation) Bill 2020 (Supplementary Explanatory
                                   Memorandum) provides further guidance and examples (see Chapter 1).


Table 3:    Remediation payments made in particular circumstances

 Consumer is deceased         If the consumer is deceased (and is not a former member), reasonable endeavours
                              should be made to make the remediation payment to the estate of the deceased
                              person.

                              Where a former member for whom remediation is required has died, the trustee
                              may consider paying these further amount(s) in accordance with the original death
                              benefit distribution decision to those nominated by the member in any binding
                              death benefit nomination or otherwise to the member’s dependants or legal
                              personal representative.

                              Trustees should consider the legal requirements under the trust deed, the SIS Act,
                              the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Regulations 1994 (SIS Regulations), the
                              Corporations Act and the relevant tax consequences relating to the payment of a
                              death benefit (where relevant).




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                         Page 57
                                                                        REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




 Consumer is bankrupt         When a consumer is suspected of being bankrupt, any remediation payment
                              should generally be directed to the individual (rather than seeking to identify the
                              relevant trustee, administrator or creditors).

                              A remediation payment may or may not be claimable by a bankruptcy trustee,
                              depending on the nature of the compensation and the misconduct or other failure.

                              A consumer who is bankrupt may need to seek legal advice and inform their
                              trustee about a remediation payment. Licensees may wish to provide the consumer
                              with support to seek legal advice about the payment: see RG 277.92–RG 277.94.

 Payments related to          If the remediation payment relates to a credit or consumer lease product that was
 loan products                not suitable for a consumer, licensees should consider the most appropriate
                              method of payment, including direct to the contract (i.e. reducing the balance of the
                              loan) or direct to the consumer.

 Payments by                  When a superannuation trustee has engaged in misconduct or other failure and is
 superannuation               conducting a remediation of superannuation accounts, the superannuation trustee
 trustees to                  should generally allocate the remediation amount to the affected member’s
 superannuation               superannuation interest, where it relates to that interest.
 accounts
                              Superannuation trustees must comply with their duties, including those under
                              legislation and the trust deed—relevantly, prohibitions on early release of money
                              from superannuation.

                              Superannuation trustees should carefully consider the tax consequences for the
                              affected members when undertaking remediation: see RG 277.101–RG 277.103.

                              If a member has since exited the fund, the superannuation trustee may decide to
                              transfer the amounts held for them to the ATO in accordance with the Unclaimed
                              Money Act: see RG 277.165–RG 277.166.

 Payments involving           Superannuation trustees should take steps to recover, or facilitate the return of,
 third parties and            fees paid to third parties (e.g. financial advisers) when the third party has failed to
 superannuation               provide them the agreed service. Subject to the particular contractual
 accounts                     arrangements, third-party licensees remediating a superannuation trustee should
                              pay the money to that fund and not directly to the member or to the former
                              member’s current superannuation fund. Trustees should then reinstate members’
                              accounts within the superannuation system in a timely manner.
                                Note: For more information, see ASIC and APRA joint letters to registrable superannuation
                                entities (RSEs): Further guidance on oversight of advice fees charged to members’
                                superannuation accounts (PDF 217 KB), published 30 June 2021, and Oversight of fees
                                charged to members’ superannuation accounts, published 10 April 2019.

                              Superannuation trustees should carefully consider the tax consequences for the
                              affected members when reinstating member accounts: see RG 277.101–RG 277.103.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                                  Page 58
                                                                       REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




 Consumer is a                A remediation payment may relate to a superannuation interest where the
 pensioner                    consumer has reached preservation age and subsequently commenced a pension.
                              In these circumstances, the remediation amount cannot be added to the capital
                              value of the pension if the amount is a contribution or rollover. Additional
                              contributions to other retirement products may also be restricted or have tax or
                              other benefit consequences for the member.

                              Depending on the circumstances, noting the tax considerations described in
                              RG 277.102, the trustee may consider that it is appropriate to allocate an amount
                              (to the extent the compensation relates to that superannuation interest) to:
                               a current member’s superannuation interest that is supporting a superannuation
                                income stream in retirement phase;
                               a current member’s superannuation interest that is in accumulation phase (this
                                may also be addressed through the establishment of an accumulation-phase
                                account for the benefit of the member); or
                               a superannuation interest that is in accumulation phase for a former member.
                              Depending on the current or former members’ circumstances, there may be a
                              range of options available to them in dealing with the superannuation interest,
                              including:
                               retaining the remediation amount in the accumulation-phase account and
                                generating investment earnings;
                               withdrawing the remediation amount as a superannuation lump sum and being
                                taxed at the rates set out in Div 301 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997;
                               commencing another pension from the capital value of the remediation payment;
                                or
                               commuting their original pension and commencing a new pension from the
                                combined capital value of the commuted pension and the remediation payment.
                                Note: Establishing an accumulation-phase account may have contribution cap effects. See
                                Super contribution caps on the ATO website for further guidance.

 Payments related to          Remediation payments involving pooled investment vehicles should be treated in
 pooled investment            accordance with this guide and RG 94. In situations of conflict, RG 94 should be
 scheme products              applied.

 Payments into client         If a licensee does not receive payment instructions from a current client within a
 money accounts               reasonable period of time, relevant licensees may pay the amounts into their client
                              money account maintained under Pt 7.8 of the Corporations Act and retain it for the
                              benefit of the client pending instructions.

 Payments related to          Payment should be made directly to the consumer (e.g. into their bank account),
 trading accounts             rather than transferred directly into the trading account.


 Payments owed to             Under the Corporations Act, money that is the property of a deregistered company
 deregistered                 (s601AD(2)), including property held by the deregistered company as trustee
 companies                    (s601AD(1A)), may be forwarded to ASIC as unclaimed money.

                              If the company was in liquidation before deregistration, the licensee should
                              consider whether these funds are payable to a creditor or member, and if they
                              should be dealt with under s544 of the Corporations Act.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                                Page 59
                                                                       REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




                             How remediation money should be returned

                             Automatic payments

              RG 277.167     In most cases, licensees should prioritise making automatic payments—for
                             example, by EFT, or by another viable means to process funds automatically.
                             This could include a consumer’s PayID details, or details of an account that a
                             consumer holds with another reputable payment system.

              RG 277.168     If a licensee does not have appropriate account details that would enable an
                             automatic payment to be made to the consumer, the licensee should consider
                             if it is appropriate to contact the consumer to seek payment instructions, or
                             to nominate an account for refunds to be credited to.

                             Use of cheques

              RG 277.169     Cheques should not be the default form of payment (unless specifically
                             requested by the consumer) and are not necessary to satisfy a reasonable
                             endeavours standard for smaller value amounts. Licensees may choose to
                             send a cheque when other avenues for automatic payment are not reasonably
                             available and particularly if the only valid contact point is a home mailing
                             address.

              RG 277.170     Licensees should monitor and record cashing rates, and reminders should be
                             sent where appropriate to consumers who have not cashed their cheques
                             within a reasonable period of time. Supporting communications and
                             reminders should provide the option of allowing a consumer to securely
                             provide their bank account details.

              RG 277.171     For actions to take on uncashed cheques despite reasonable endeavours, see
                             RG 277.188–RG 277.197.


Interactions with dispute resolution systems
              RG 277.172     Licensees must have a dispute resolution system that consists of:
                             (a)   an IDR procedure that meets the standards or requirements made or
                                   approved by ASIC; and
                             (b)   membership of AFCA.

                                   Note: See s912A(1)(g) and 1017G(1) of the Corporations Act, s47(1)(h) and (i) of the
                                   National Credit Act, s101(1) and (1A) of the SIS Act, and s47(1) and (2) of the
                                   Retirement Savings Accounts Act 1997 (RSA Act).

              RG 277.173     Dispute resolution standards and requirements are set out in RG 271, which
                             explains how financial firms must meet their IDR obligations.

                                   Note: There are particular standards and requirements in ASIC Instrument 2020/98 and
                                   highlighted in RG 271 that are enforceable.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                                Page 60
                                                                    REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




              RG 277.174     AFCA’s Rules set out the rules and processes that apply to all complaints
                             submitted to AFCA. Further, the AFCA Operational Guidelines to the Rules
                             (AFCA’s Operational Guidelines) provide more information about the
                             operation of AFCA’s Rules. Regulatory Guide 267 Oversight of the
                             Australian Financial Complaints Authority (RG 267) sets out how we
                             perform our oversight role of AFCA.

              RG 277.175     While there are similarities between internal and external dispute resolution
                             obligations and remediation obligations, there are also distinct differences:
                             (a)   IDR—Licensees must accept and respond to complaints initiated by
                                   consumers who have typically identified an underlying problem or
                                   issue, and have the opportunity to provide details of their individual
                                   circumstances.
                             (b)   Remediation—Licensees proactively initiate the identification of
                                   consumers who may have been affected by an identified misconduct or
                                   other failure (regardless of the existence of complaints). Consumers
                                   may not be aware of or engaged in the process, and licensees may not
                                   always have access to information about their individual circumstances.
                             (c)   External dispute resolution—AFCA reviews complaints by consumers
                                   if they are not satisfied with the licensee’s decision following IDR.

              RG 277.176     When communicating key pieces of information to affected consumers
                             during a remediation (e.g. the final remediation outcome), licensees should
                             provide details of how to lodge a complaint through IDR. Licensees must
                             also provide consumers with details about how to access AFCA in various
                             circumstances: see ‘Links between the IDR process and AFCA’ in Section C
                             of RG 271.


                             Interaction between remediation, IDR and AFCA

              RG 277.177     When a remediation is underway, the IDR obligations will not apply to most
                             of the consumers within the scope of the remediation. This is because these
                             consumers will have been identified by the licensee as being affected and
                             will not have made a complaint about the actual or potential misconduct or
                             other failure.

              RG 277.178     If a consumer makes a complaint relating to a remediation, then the IDR
                             requirements set out in RG 271 (including maximum IDR timeframes) will
                             apply to that complaint. The existence of a remediation does not exempt a
                             licensee from its IDR obligations.

              RG 277.179     This includes complaints about:
                             (a)   the misconduct or other failure the subject of a remediation (i.e. when the
                                   consumer has not been included within scope or is yet to be contacted);
                             (b)   the remediation process itself (e.g. delays, lack of communication); and




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                      Page 61
                                                                    REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




                             (c)   the final remediation outcome.

              RG 277.180     For the remediation process to be effective, licensees should establish and
                             maintain appropriate links between their remediation and IDR processes, and
                             AFCA.

              RG 277.181     It is important for the complaints management function to be able to request
                             information and share details of IDR outcomes, or outcomes at AFCA, with
                             those conducting the remediation so they can test and review the remediation
                             approach if the new information justifies it.

              RG 277.182     We acknowledge that sometimes licensees will receive complaints relevant
                             to a remediation before finalising the scoping or design of the methodology.
                             We expect licensees to meet the IDR timeframes mandated by RG 271.
                             However, there may be some instances where there is no reasonable
                             opportunity for the licensee to provide the IDR response within the relevant
                             maximum IDR timeframe because the resolution of the individual complaint
                             is particularly complex: see Section C of RG 271. When this exception is
                             relied on, licensees must provide a delay notification, which informs the
                             complainant of the reason for the delay, AFCA’s contact details and their
                             right to escalate the complaint to AFCA.

              RG 277.183     If a licensee has resolved complaints that later become the subject of a
                             remediation, the licensee should investigate whether the outcome of that
                             complaint was equivalent to or better than the outcome they would have
                             received during the remediation process. If not, the licensee should revisit
                             the complaint and consider providing additional compensation or outcomes.


                             When to refer consumers to AFCA

              RG 277.184     It is important that consumers have access to AFCA if they are not satisfied
                             with the decision made in relation to whether the misconduct or other failure
                             has occurred and whether the final remediation outcome is appropriate for
                             them. Licensees must advise consumers that they can have their remediation
                             outcome reviewed by AFCA, following the outcome of an IDR process.

              RG 277.185     Licensees should provide consumers with relevant information about the
                             outcome, taking into account good communication principles: see Making it
                             right, Resource C. We recognise, however, that there may be some limited
                             circumstances when it is appropriate to withhold certain information and
                             documents. These circumstances might include when the release of
                             information would endanger a third party or when it would compromise
                             general security measures.

              RG 277.186     If AFCA receives a remediation-related complaint that has been through
                             IDR (post-IDR referral), AFCA will not automatically refer the complaint
                             back to the licensee. In most cases, AFCA will register the complaint and




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                      Page 62
                                                                        REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




                             commence the case management process. This helps to ensure that
                             consumers who have been through a remediation process and an IDR
                             process are not required to go through a subsequent IDR refer-back before
                             their complaint is considered by AFCA.

              RG 277.187     To ensure that consumers have access to AFCA, depending on the nature of
                             the misconduct or other failure, licensees may need to consider waiving any
                             monetary or time limit, or other limits that may constrain AFCA’s
                             jurisdiction: see RG 277.98–RG 277.100.



Dealing with money that cannot be returned to consumers
              RG 277.188     Money that cannot be returned directly to consumers, despite reasonable
                             endeavours, cannot be kept by a licensee. Licensees must not profit from the
                             misconduct or other failure. If the money cannot be returned despite
                             reasonable endeavours, licensees should lodge the money in a relevant state,
                             territory or Commonwealth unclaimed money regime or make a residual
                             remediation payment.
                                   Note 1: Residual remediation payments cannot be paid using scheme or trust property
                                   (such as the operational risk reserve). As such, these amounts may be retained for the
                                   benefit of the members or unitholders of the same fund or scheme.

                                   Note 2: Licensees are responsible for the administrative expenses incurred in
                                   remediating consumers. Licensees should not pay expenses using the money that could
                                   not be returned to consumers.

              RG 277.189     Where relevant, licensees should communicate to affected consumers that,
                             should they not respond, the licensee will lodge the money in an unclaimed
                             money regime or otherwise make a residual remediation payment. The
                             communication should set out that the affected consumer will remain
                             eligible to claim the compensation owed.


                             Unclaimed money regimes

              RG 277.190     All states and territories have legislation that enables them to accept and
                             hold unclaimed money on behalf of people who are owed money. The
                             Commonwealth also has legislation that covers, among other things, lost
                             money related to superannuation, banking and life insurance. ASIC in
                             particular is responsible for handling all unclaimed money from:
                             (a)   authorised deposit taking institutions, under s69 of the Banking Act
                                   1959 (Banking Act);
                             (b)   life insurance companies and benefit fund friendly societies, under s216
                                   of the Life Insurance Act; and
                             (c)   companies with unclaimed money or property, under s414, 544,
                                   601AD(1A), 601AD(2), 601NG, 668A, 668B, 1017E, 1343 and 1343A
                                   of the Corporations Act.



© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                                  Page 63
                                                                       REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




              RG 277.191     Licensees should be aware of their unclaimed money obligations under
                             relevant state, territory and Commonwealth legislation and whether it applies
                             to the remediation payments.

              RG 277.192     Money that is lodged into an unclaimed money regime is held on trust by the
                             Australian Government as consolidated revenue and remains available for
                             the rightful owner to claim (sometimes for a specific period of time) after it
                             has been lodged. Some regimes may require a licensee to hold the lost
                             money on trust for a period of time before lodgement.

              RG 277.193     Most state, territory and Commonwealth unclaimed money regimes have a
                             minimum threshold amount. For example, provisions in the Banking Act do
                             not allow authorised deposit-taking institutions to lodge an amount less than
                             $500. In these circumstances it would be appropriate to pay amounts less
                             than $500 as a residual remediation payment following reasonable
                             endeavours to return the money: see RG 277.194–RG 277.197.

                                   Note 1: See s69 of the Banking Act and reg 25 of the Banking Regulation 2016.

                                   Note 2: Other state, territory and Commonwealth regimes may impose different
                                   minimum value thresholds (if any).


                             Residual remediation payments

              RG 277.194     As an alternative to lodging the unreturned funds in an unclaimed money
                             regime, a residual remediation payment should be made to a charity or not-
                             for-profit organisation registered with the ACNC within 12 months of the
                             remediation being finalised. If reasonable endeavours have been made, the
                             residual remediation payment (or surplus) should be small.

              RG 277.195     When a licensee holds pooled funds (e.g. in a managed investment scheme
                             or in a superannuation fund), residual remediation payments cannot be paid
                             using scheme or trust property. It is appropriate that surplus funds are instead
                             held for the benefit of members of the same relevant scheme or fund.

              RG 277.196     Generally, it will not be necessary for licensees to engage with ASIC about
                             an appropriate recipient of the residual remediation payment. However, if
                             possible, the recipient should have a connection to addressing the relevant
                             consumer harm and should not be associated with the licensee undertaking
                             the remediation. The recipient should also be given sufficient information so
                             it can understand the reason for the residual remediation payment. A residual
                             remediation payment should not be promoted by the licensee as a charitable
                             donation.

              RG 277.197     If an affected consumer seeks compensation after the licensee has disbursed
                             funds via a residual remediation payment, the consumer should still be paid
                             the compensation they are owed, regardless of additional costs.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                                  Page 64
                                                                         REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




Settlement deeds
              RG 277.198     Licensees should generally not require settlement deeds in a remediation, or
                             assume consent to the conditions attaching to a remediation payment if a
                             consumer has not responded to the licensee.

              RG 277.199     The use of settlement deeds in remediations can be problematic, as:
                             (a)   they may act to limit or remove existing consumer rights, in particular
                                   the right to make a complaint through IDR and to AFCA, in situations
                                   where a consumer might not be able to determine whether an offer is
                                   adequate;
                             (b)   they can require action on behalf of the consumer—for example,
                                   signing and returning the deed of settlement and release, and possibly
                                   requiring a witness. This is contrary to the principle that a remediation
                                   should be easy for a consumer and minimise consumer actions; and
                             (c)   remediations are different from dispute resolution processes because
                                   they tend to involve large-scale decision making about consumers who
                                   are unlikely to be aware of the underlying misconduct or other failure or
                                   actively involved in a remediation. Relying on implied consent is more
                                   problematic in these circumstances because individual circumstances
                                   may not be considered in remediation outcomes.

              RG 277.200     There may, however, be some limited circumstances where a licensee may
                             be required to enter settlement deeds in order to comply with their legal
                             duties or obligations, or comply with the conditions under the PI coverage.
                             Licensees should consider whether the settlement deed is necessary, and
                             whether its use is efficient, honest and fair in the circumstances.

              RG 277.201     If a settlement deed is required, we expect the deeds to be strictly limited to
                             the specific misconduct or other failure that is the subject of the remediation
                             payment. The settlement deed should not include confidentiality or non-
                             disparagement clauses. For example, it should not restrict a consumer’s
                             ability to speak about the matter with ASIC (or other Commonwealth, state
                             or territory agencies), an adviser (such as a financial counsellor or lawyer) or
                             AFCA, including about the original misconduct or other failure that gave
                             rise to the remediation outcome.

              RG 277.202     We expect licensees will take all reasonable steps to ensure a consumer’s
                             right to review a remediation outcome is not unreasonably restricted. This
                             may also include providing additional support where appropriate.

                                   Note: For those licensees subject to the notify, investigate and remediate obligations,
                                   under s912EB(10) of the Corporations Act and s51B(9) of the National Credit Act
                                   nothing in the section affects the right of the affected consumer to recover loss or
                                   damage that the consumer suffers, or will suffer, as a result of a reportable situation.
                                   This includes by way of internal or external dispute resolution.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                                     Page 65
                                                                        REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




H          Resourcing, governance and accountability


                              Key points

                              Licensees should ensure that:
                              • remediations are adequately resourced (see RG 277.203–RG 277.209);
                              • appropriate governance arrangements are in place, including when
                                outsourcing or obtaining independent expert assurance, where
                                appropriate (see RG 277.210–RG 277.229); and
                              • there is proper record-keeping of the work that is done, and the
                                conclusions reached (see RG 277.230–RG 277.232).

                              Licensees should also consider whether it may be in the public interest to
                              report publicly on the remediation, and provide updates on progress: see
                              RG 277.233–RG 277.235.




Allocating adequate resources
              RG 277.203     Adequate resources should be allocated to the remediation to ensure that the
                             process is efficient and fair. For larger remediations, senior management
                             should assess, and regularly review, the need for resources and provide them
                             promptly.

                                   Note: AFS licensees and credit licensees (other than APRA-regulated entities that are
                                   subject to other obligations) must have adequate resources to provide financial services
                                   or engage in credit activities authorised by the licence: see RG 277.278–RG 277.180.

              RG 277.204     What are adequate resources will depend on the size and complexity of the
                             remediation. Adequate resources could include, but are not limited to:
                             (a)   adequate financial resources;
                             (b)   the appropriate number of people;
                             (c)   people with the relevant knowledge, qualifications, experience, skills,
                                   training and support;
                             (d)   the appropriate mix of people with different specialties;
                             (e)   appropriate record-keeping systems;
                             (f)   staff with sufficient seniority who are able to sign off on decisions or
                                   respond to unexpected challenges efficiently; and
                             (g)   adequate technological and data infrastructure, or other resources.

              RG 277.205     If a licensee (other than APRA-regulated entities that are subject to other
                             obligations) does not have adequate resources to conduct the remediation
                             and to provide remedies to affected consumers, it may be a breach of the



© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                                   Page 66
                                                                    REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




                             licensee’s general obligations under s912A(1)(d) of the Corporations Act or
                             s47(1)(l) of the National Credit Act.

              RG 277.206     We are likely to look more closely at the way in which remediations are
                             being conducted if there is a significant delay in initiating the remediation
                             process from when the misconduct or other failure was identified, or if the
                             timeframe for remediating consumers is lengthy, taking into account (among
                             other things) the nature of the misconduct or other failure and the number of
                             affected consumers. Unjustified delays may indicate a lack of adequate
                             resources to conduct the remediation, or that the licensee is not prioritising
                             the remediation of consumers and acting efficiently, honestly and fairly. This
                             may mean a breach of licensing obligations.


                             Training of staff and utilising expertise

              RG 277.207     The selection, support and training of people involved in remediation are
                             particularly important. Staff who are leading or managing the remediation
                             should be aware of this guide, Making it right, consumer laws relating to
                             financial products and services, AFCA approaches to complaint resolution
                             and relevant industry codes of practice. Staff should also be trained in the
                             licensee’s remediation policy and process, as well as the IDR requirements
                             and procedures, especially if they are in a customer-facing role.

              RG 277.208     Licensees should also actively draw on the expertise they have available.
                             This will vary across different organisations. Larger organisations should
                             leverage their access to specialties such as marketing, consumer insights,
                             behavioural insights, data analytics, data science, user experience design and
                             so on to contribute to different aspects of the remediation.

              RG 277.209     If a licensee has a customer advocate, consider the role the customer
                             advocate could play in shaping, overseeing, reviewing or making a positive
                             difference to remediation processes. A customer advocate can bring a
                             fairness lens to the remediation and assist in balancing the power imbalance
                             between consumers and their licensee by taking the consumer viewpoint and
                             challenging decisions that might otherwise be seen to preference a licensee’s
                             interests over consumers.



Governance and accountability arrangements
              RG 277.210     Ensuring fair and timely consumer outcomes, including by remediating loss
                             suffered as a result of misconduct or other failures, should be a priority for
                             licensees. Licensees should develop and maintain a positive remediation
                             culture, which can produce beneficial outcomes for both consumers and
                             licensees.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                      Page 67
                                                                    REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




              RG 277.211     When a remediation is initiated, the governance arrangements and
                             accountability structures required (including the type of involvement) will
                             depend on the size of the licensee’s business and the nature and scope of the
                             remediation. The roles and responsibilities should be clearly understood by
                             the licensee and person(s) with oversight of the remediation. These
                             arrangements should be documented and made readily accessible internally.

              RG 277.212     Accountability over remediation is important. Licensees should have
                             processes in place to record and report on remediation outcomes, including
                             for smaller remediations conducted in the normal course of business.

              RG 277.213     Large remediations should have a level of oversight by a senior person who is
                             able to make, and is experienced in making, decisions for the business on a
                             day-to-day basis. This person should receive regular and direct reporting on
                             the progress and outcomes of the remediation to ensure consistency with ASIC
                             guidance and any internal remediation guidance if applicable. For incorporated
                             businesses, this may include reporting to the board or appointing a director or
                             senior executive as the person responsible for the remediation.

              RG 277.214     In some cases, it may also be appropriate to provide for oversight by a senior
                             person who is internal to the business but removed from the operation of the
                             remediation (e.g. the internal auditor, compliance officer or internal audit
                             team). The person(s) providing oversight should not oversee their own work.

              RG 277.215     The type of involvement of the person(s) overseeing remediations could
                             include:
                             (a)   reviewing and testing the design of the remediation (including any
                                   assumptions used);
                             (b)   reviewing a selection of files to ensure that assessments are being
                                   undertaken consistently and fairly;
                             (c)   general oversight of the remediation process and checking operational
                                   effectiveness;
                             (d)   ensuring adequate resourcing;
                             (e)   ensuring a strong governance framework (including data governance
                                   where relevant) is in place to support the remediation;
                             (f)   meeting the requirements of any accountability regimes, if appropriate;
                                   and
                             (g)   providing a compliance attestation that the remediation has been
                                   conducted in a manner consistent with this guide.

              RG 277.216     If a licensee has a group structure with multiple financial services brands and
                             businesses under its licence, depending on the nature and organisation of the
                             group, the licensee should generally ensure that it has an appropriate
                             centralised remediation governance framework and independent oversight,
                             with regular reporting to its board. This will ensure consistency and



© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                        Page 68
                                                                    REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




                             compliance with internal policies and procedures, mitigate institutional silos,
                             and promote information and intelligence sharing across the whole
                             organisation.


                             Outsourcing

              RG 277.217     Licensees may outsource parts of the remediation process if necessary. This
                             may be appropriate if, for example, the remediation is particularly large
                             scale, complex or involves vulnerable consumers, and the licensee does not
                             have the requisite internal function or capability. However, licensees are
                             ultimately responsible for the remediation’s operation and ensuring that
                             remediation has been conducted in a manner consistent with this guide.

              RG 277.218     When outsourcing a remediation function, it should be done in a way that
                             maintains a consumer-centred approach. Licensees that outsource part, or all,
                             of their remediation process should:
                             (a)   have measures in place to ensure that due care and skill is taken in
                                   choosing suitable service providers;
                             (b)   ensure that the service provider is aware of the interacting obligations,
                                   in particular the trigger for and obligations of IDR under RG 271;
                             (c)   have service level agreements in place that consider this guide and any
                                   other relevant ASIC resources (such as Making it right);
                             (d)   regularly monitor the ongoing performance of service providers; and
                             (e)   appropriately deal with any actions by service providers that breach
                                   service level agreements or fall short of their obligations, including
                                   reporting any significant breaches to ASIC in accordance with RG 78.

              RG 277.219     We encourage licensees to develop their own in-house remediation
                             capabilities where possible. This will increase consistency, efficiency and
                             learning in the long term.


                             When it is appropriate to engage an independent expert

              RG 277.220     In some situations, it may be appropriate for a business or person external to
                             the business and any related entities, who has the relevant expertise, to be
                             engaged to provide independent assurance over the governance, design and
                             operation of the remediation.

              RG 277.221     Engaging an independent expert may be appropriate for situations that
                             include, but are not limited to:
                             (a)   large scale or complex remediations;
                             (b)   when a number of assumptions are made that may materially affect the
                                   scope or amount of compensation;




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                      Page 69
                                                                        REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




                             (c)   when the independent assurance forms part of an enforceable
                                   undertaking or ASIC-imposed licence condition(s);
                             (d)   when reporting to the public would be appropriate;
                             (e)   when a licensee has nobody sufficiently independent internally; or
                             (f)   when ASIC, APRA or AFCA requests the involvement of an expert.

              RG 277.222     If a remediation forms part of a court enforceable undertaking, in some cases
                             ASIC may appoint the independent expert: see the appendix in Regulatory
                             Guide 100 Court enforceable undertakings (RG 100).

              RG 277.223     An independent expert should usually be retained directly by a licensee and
                             not through a third party (other than ASIC or another regulator if relevant).

              RG 277.224     Licensees should ensure that the expert they choose:
                             (a)   is, and remains, genuinely independent;
                             (b)   is able to exercise objective and impartial judgement; and
                             (c)   has appropriate measures to manage any conflicts of interests that might
                                   flow from the fact that they have been appointed by the licensee.

              RG 277.225     For a list of non-exhaustive factors that are indications of the potential risks
                             to an expert’s ability to exercise objective and impartial judgement—see the
                             appendix in RG 100.

                                   Note: The guidance about expert impartiality is relevant to all remediations whether
                                   undertaken as part of a court enforceable undertaking or not.

              RG 277.226     Licensees should have regard to Regulatory Guide 111 Content of expert
                             reports (RG 111) and Regulatory Guide 112 Independence of experts
                             (RG 112) when commissioning an expert report.


                             Conflicts of interest

              227            Licensees must have in place adequate arrangements to manage conflicts of
                             interest: see s912A(1)(aa). To be adequate, these arrangements should
                             manage conflicts effectively through a combination of avoiding, controlling
                             and disclosing conflicts of interest. Generally, licensees should ensure that
                             any staff or providers who engaged in the misconduct or other failure (if
                             relevant) are not involved in the remediation and are unable to influence
                             anyone who is involved in the remediation (e.g. file reviewers, peer
                             reviewers, decision makers and those providing oversight of the
                             remediation).

              RG 277.228     If a conflict of interest cannot be avoided, it should be documented and the
                             risks associated with the conflict managed effectively through control
                             mechanisms or disclosure. What is appropriate will depend on the facts and
                             circumstances, including other legal obligations relevant to a licensee’s



© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                                  Page 70
                                                                        REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




                             situation. Licensees may need to consider engaging an independent expert to
                             provide assurance over the remediation design and execution.

                                   Note: For further information on having adequate arrangements to manage conflicts of
                                   interest effectively, see: Regulatory Guide 181 AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of
                                   interest (RG 181).

              RG 277.229     An independent expert selected and appointed by the licensee should also
                             ensure that they have adequate arrangements to manage any conflicts of
                             interest that may arise during the engagement, including from their
                             appointment by the licensee.



Documenting the remediation and justifying decisions
              RG 277.230     Licensees should document the remediation methodology and process.
                             Records should track key steps and decision milestones (many of which are
                             outlined at various points in this guide).

              RG 277.231     Good record keeping is an important part of any remediation and will help
                             licensees:
                             (a)   track the remediation against consumer outcomes and monitor progress;
                             (b)   justify the decision-making rationale;
                             (c)   report to senior staff and ASIC if required;
                             (d)   demonstrate compliance with legal obligations and this guide; and
                                   Note: Licensees subject to the notify, investigate and remediate obligations must keep
                                   records of the remediation in order to demonstrate compliance: see RG 277.310–
                                   RG 277.314.

                             (e)   learn from the remediation after it is finalised.

              RG 277.232     Records will also help the licensee’s IDR team and AFCA to review a
                             remediation decision if a consumer makes a complaint about their
                             remediation outcome.



Reporting publicly
              RG 277.233     In general, we believe licensees should be transparent about their
                             remediations. Public reporting (e.g. prominent disclosure on the licensee’s
                             website) will be especially important for a larger scale remediation or a
                             remediation that follows public reports of consumer losses, or alleged
                             misconduct or other failures. Licensees must also comply with their
                             continuous disclosure and financial reporting obligations in relation to
                             remediation where relevant.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                                  Page 71
                                                                    REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




              RG 277.234     For more information about how to use transparency in a remediation, see
                             Making it right, pp 7–8.

              RG 277.235     We may also from time to time publish details about the existence, progress
                             or outcomes of the remediations that we are monitoring: see RG 277.266–
                             RG 277.268.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                      Page 72
                                                                         REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




I          Engaging with external organisations


                              Key points

                              Licensees may need to engage with AFCA, the ATO, APRA and/or other
                              external organisations in relation to their remediation. Licensees should
                              also have appropriate procedures and systems in place in the event an
                              affected consumer chooses to be legally represented.




Australian Financial Complaints Authority
              RG 277.236     Licensees must have in place a dispute resolution system that consists of:
                             (a)   IDR procedures that comply with the standards and requirements made
                                   or approved by ASIC (see RG 271); and
                             (b)   membership of AFCA.

                                   Note: See s912A(1)(g) and 1017G(1) and (2) of the Corporations Act, s47(1) of the
                                   National Credit Act, s101(1) and (1A) of the SIS Act, and s47(1) and (2) of the RSA
                                   Act.

              RG 277.237     Consumers have a right to make a complaint about a remediation, including
                             the final outcome decision. For more information about the interaction
                             between remediation, IDR and AFCA, see RG 277.172–RG 277.187.

              RG 277.238     AFCA’s Rules and AFCA’s Operational Guidelines set out AFCA’s
                             approach to complaints. AFCA can award compensation for financial loss
                             suffered because of a licensee’s misconduct or other failure. AFCA’s
                             decisions are binding on a licensee.

                                   Note: AFCA’s Rules at Rules D.1–D.6 set out the types of remedies that AFCA can
                                   award, including compensation for direct financial loss, indirect financial loss and non-
                                   financial loss.

              RG 277.239     It is a legislative requirement that a licensee take reasonable steps to
                             cooperate with AFCA in resolving complaints. AFCA will report any
                             non-cooperation to us.

              RG 277.240     Non-compliance with an AFCA scheme decision—in particular, the non-
                             payment of a determination—is reportable to ASIC under s1052E(1)(d): see
                             Section D of RG 267. AFCA must also give particulars of a contravention,
                             breach, refusal or failure to the appropriate authorities that it becomes aware
                             of in connection with a complaint: see s1052E(1).




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                                    Page 73
                                                                       REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




                             AFCA’s systemic issues role

              RG 277.241     Misconduct or other failures may be identified by a licensee or a regulator. A
                             systemic issue may be identified by AFCA as part of its systemic issues role
                             and reported to a regulator. Regardless of the method of identification, we
                             expect licensees to initiate and conduct the remediation in accordance with
                             this guidance.

              RG 277.242     If AFCA considers that there is a systemic issue arising from the consideration
                             of complaints, it must give particulars of the issue to one or more of APRA,
                             ASIC, or the Commissioner of Taxation: see s1052E(4) of the Corporations
                             Act.

              RG 277.243     For more information about AFCA’s systemic issues role, see AFCA’s Rules
                             at Rule A.17 and the guideline to Rule A.17 in AFCA’s Operational
                             Guidelines.


Australian Taxation Office
              RG 277.244     Licensees may need to engage with the ATO on the taxation impacts on
                             consumers when remediation payments are made and/or if there are
                             uncertainties with the tax treatment of the remediation payment.

              RG 277.245     In some cases, drawing consumers’ attention to ATO guidance about tax
                             treatment of the remediation payment might be sufficient: see, for example,
                             RG 277.103. In others, there may be more complex ramifications of
                             payments and the nature of the remediation may not be covered by existing
                             ATO guidance.

              RG 277.246     It is important that licensees consider the taxation impacts on consumers
                             early, and consider obtaining advice to determine the best way to ensure
                             consumers receive an appropriate amount of compensation after any tax
                             liability tax is paid.


Australian Prudential Regulation Authority
              RG 277.247     All APRA-regulated institutions must comply with certain breach
                             notification requirements. A breach notification arises when an APRA-
                             regulated institution is required, in accordance with the industry’s relevant
                             legislation, to notify APRA of a ‘significant’ breach of a prudential
                             requirement.

                                   Note: See s29JA of the SIS Act, s132A of the Life Insurance Act, s38AA of the
                                   Insurance Act, s62A of the Banking Act and s95 of the Private Health Insurance
                                   (Prudential Supervision) Act 2015.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                               Page 74
                                                                    REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




              RG 277.248     If a breach of APRA-administered legislation involves financial loss to
                             members, policy holders or depositors of the institution, APRA will
                             generally refer the matter to ASIC if it has not already been dual-reported.

              RG 277.249     If we do decide to monitor the conduct of a remediation, ASIC will usually
                             have the primary supervisory role. Depending on the circumstances,
                             however, ASIC and APRA may take a coordinated approach in the
                             supervision of the remediation (if necessary) and the rectification of the
                             related misconduct or other failure.



Other external organisations

                             PI insurers

              RG 277.250     Licensees must have arrangements for compensating consumers for loss
                             suffered as a result of a breach by the licensee or its representatives of their
                             obligations under Ch 7 of the Corporations Act.

              RG 277.251     Licensees with professional indemnity (PI) insurance policies should engage
                             with their insurer at an early stage of the remediation process to assess the
                             pool of funds available for the remediation.

              RG 277.252     Licensees should also consider discussing with their PI insurer, as early as
                             possible in the remediation process, whether they would prefer to review any
                             proposed remediation methodology or communications with clients. This is to
                             minimise the risk that the rights of the PI insurer will be prejudiced by any
                             action taken by the licensee that, as a consequence, may void or reduce cover.


                             Consumer advocates and representatives

              RG 277.253     Licensees should have appropriate procedures and systems in place in the
                             event an affected consumer chooses to be legally represented. Licensees
                             should:
                             (a)   confirm the legal representative has the appropriate authority in a timely
                                   manner, and be able to adapt promptly to challenges associated with
                                   obtaining authority from consumers experiencing vulnerability or those
                                   in remote locations; and
                             (b)   ensure all communications during the remediation are directed to the
                                   authorised legal representative.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                       Page 75
                                                                    REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




J          Our role in remediations


                              Key points

                              Licensees should be proactively conducting remediations irrespective of
                              our involvement.

                              There may be some cases, however, when we will consider using the
                              various regulatory tools and actions available to us if a licensee has not
                              initiated a remediation when it should have, or if a licensee is not
                              conducting its remediation in a manner consistent with this guide.




How ASIC may become involved in a remediation
              RG 277.254     We may become aware of misconduct or other failures and remediation
                             through proactive surveillance, reports of misconduct from the public or
                             code monitoring bodies, information sharing from other Commonwealth
                             financial sector regulators such as APRA or the ATO, notifications of
                             reportable situations from licensees, or reports of systemic issues from
                             AFCA.

              RG 277.255     Getting a remediation right is the responsibility of a licensee and we will
                             generally not be actively involved in the conduct of a remediation. A
                             licensee should not:
                             (a)   wait for us to require it to start a remediation process after it has
                                   identified the misconduct or other failure causing consumer loss; or
                             (b)   assume that notifying us of the existence of a reportable situation and
                                   linked remediation means that we have assessed whether the
                                   remediation process is adequate.

              RG 277.256     In some cases, we will decide that we require further information about, or
                             involvement in, a particular remediation. A licensee should engage with us
                             in an open, constructive and cooperative way and give high business priority
                             to the resolution of the remediation.


                             Reports to us through the breach reporting regime

              RG 277.257     Many remediations will result from a reportable situation and therefore
                             should be reported to us through the breach reporting regime: see
                             RG 277.305–RG 277.309. If a remediation does not meet the significance
                             test and is not due to a reportable situation, then it does not need to be
                             reported to us.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                      Page 76
                                                                       REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




              RG 277.258     When submitting a breach report under s912DAA of the Corporations Act or
                             s50B of the National Credit Act, a licensee must provide information
                             relevant to any consumer loss suffered and remediation conducted, and
                             notify us when it is complete.

              RG 277.259     Depending on the circumstances, we may ask a licensee to provide specific
                             information and metrics to us about the remediation and its progress on a
                             regular basis using the prescribed breach reporting form, or through other
                             channels as requested on a case-by-case basis.

              RG 277.260     We may also give written notice to direct a licensee to provide a written
                             statement containing specified information about a remediation that we are
                             aware of. We may require that this statement be audited or prepared by a
                             suitably qualified person. This might be on a one-off or on a periodic basis.

                                   Note: See, for example, s912C of the Corporations Act or s30 and 33 of the ASIC Act.


                             ASIC-initiated action and use of regulatory tools

              RG 277.261     We expect remediations will be initiated and conducted in a manner
                             consistent with this guide, and in line with a licensee’s legal obligations
                             irrespective of our involvement.

              RG 277.262     If we determine that a licensee has not initiated a remediation when it should
                             have, or that a licensee is not conducting its remediation in a manner
                             consistent with this guide, we may consider using the various regulatory
                             actions and tools available. These may include (but are not limited to):
                             (a)   general monitoring of the remediation process;
                             (b)   reviewing and commenting on the design and conduct of the
                                   remediation;
                             (c)   requesting regular reporting on the progress of the remediation, and
                                   providing feedback on those reports;
                             (d)   enforcement action;
                             (e)   issuing public statements;
                             (f)   requesting a senior executive or relevant accountable person to provide
                                   an attestation that the remediation has been conducted in a manner
                                   consistent with this guide;
                             (g)   seeking an independent expert report on the design and conduct of the
                                   remediation;
                             (h)   using other regulatory tools; or
                             (i)   a combination of the above.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                               Page 77
                                                                       REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




              RG 277.263     As an example, we may seek information from a licensee about its use of
                             assumptions and justification if we believe the assumptions are not
                             beneficial to consumers, particularly consumers experiencing vulnerability.

              RG 277.264     Where a licensee has engaged in a breach of the law that has led to a need to
                             remediate, separate consideration may be given to enforcement action in
                             relation to the underlying conduct that led to the consumer loss, including
                             the use of compensation orders.

              RG 277.265     We may accept a court enforceable undertaking proposed by a licensee that
                             covers remediation, if we consider it will achieve an effective and
                             appropriate regulatory outcome that is in the public interest. For example, we
                             may commence civil proceedings against a person but also accept an
                             undertaking that results in remediation outcomes for a wider class of affected
                             consumers than those referred to in the court proceedings.

                                   Note: See RG 100 for more information.




ASIC public statements
              RG 277.266     We may publish information about the existence, progress and/or outcomes
                             of remediations that we are monitoring. In the interests of transparency, we
                             may publish names of entities if doing so will promote market integrity and
                             consumer protection. This decision will be balanced against other factors
                             such as the impact on the identifiable entity, on fair and orderly markets, and
                             on regulatory proceedings and competition.

              RG 277.267     There are limitations on informing the public of our regulatory activities: see
                             Information Sheet 152 Public comment on ASIC’s regulatory activities
                             (INFO 152).

              RG 277.268     When we have accepted an enforceable undertaking from a licensee that
                             requires reporting by an independent expert, we will make publicly available
                             a summary of the final report, or a statement that refers to the contents of
                             that report, on our enforceable undertakings register on our website. We may
                             also refer to the contents of the report publicly.

                                   Note: See Information Sheet 28 About the court enforceable undertakings register for
                                   more information (INFO 28).




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                                Page 78
                                                                        REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




Appendix: Interaction with licensing obligations and
other laws


              RG 277.269     We expect licensees to conduct remediations in a manner consistent with this
                             guide and in line with their general licensing obligations. This guidance does
                             not always consider all potential laws, legal obligations or private
                             arrangements unique to particular licensees. Licensees should also be
                             cognisant of those requirements.

              RG 277.270     Licensees should be aware of how the remediation interacts with the general
                             licensing and other obligations, and remain aware of any imminent law
                             reform. This appendix gives an overview of some of these obligations,
                             including:
                             (a)   general licensing obligations including what underpins the need for an
                                   efficient, honest and fair remediation (see RG 277.271–RG 277.282);
                             (b)   the need for licensees to have arrangements in place for compensating
                                   consumers for detriment suffered (see RG 277.284–RG 277.287);
                             (c)   specific obligations relating to superannuation trustees and fund
                                   managers (see RG 277.288–RG 277.292);
                             (d)   the design and distribution obligations (see RG 277.293–RG 277.295);
                             (e)   record-keeping obligations (see RG 277.296–RG 277.304);
                             (f)   breach reporting obligations (see RG 277.305–RG 277.309); and
                             (g)   obligations to notify, investigate and remediate (see RG 277.310–
                                   RG 277.314).

                                   Note: For the interaction between a remediation and dispute resolution requirements,
                                   see RG 277.172–RG 277.187.




Licensing obligations

                             Providing services efficiently, honestly and fairly

              RG 277.271     Underpinning our guidance is the general obligation on AFS licensees and
                             credit licensees to do all things necessary to ensure that the financial services
                             or credit activities covered by the licence are provided efficiently, honestly
                             and fairly: see s912A(1)(a) of the Corporations Act and s47(1)(a) of the
                             National Credit Act. Complying with this ongoing obligation includes
                             licensees taking responsibility for the consequences of their misconduct or
                             other failures, and remediating consumers who have suffered loss as a result.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                                 Page 79
                                                                        REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




              RG 277.272     This obligation also extends to remediations of consumers who have
                             suffered loss because of the licensee’s current or former authorised
                             representatives. It may also extend to misconduct or other failures of related
                             entities described under RG 277.22.

                             Complying with contractual obligations

              RG 277.273     If a licensee has contractual obligations to consumers and breaches the terms
                             of the contract (e.g. by failing to deliver products or services in accordance
                             with the terms and conditions), this conduct could amount to a failure to
                             provide financial services or credit activities efficiently, honestly and fairly.

                                   Note: See Section C of Regulatory Guide 104 AFS licensing: Meeting the general
                                   obligations (RG 104) and Section C of Regulatory Guide 205 Credit licensing: General
                                   conduct obligations (RG 205).

              RG 277.274     Continuing and maintaining systems that are not capable of ensuring
                             compliance with contractual or general conduct obligations to consumers
                             may also amount to a breach of the efficient, honest and fair obligation.

                                   Note: See, for example, Australian Securities and Investments Commission v
                                   Commonwealth Bank of Australia [2020] FCA 790. The Commonwealth Bank of
                                   Australia (CBA) admitted and the Federal Court declared that CBA breached
                                   s912A(1)(a) of the Corporations Act (among other things) for failing to apply benefits
                                   to customer accounts when it was contractually required to do so, mischarging annual
                                   fees, and continuing and maintaining systems that were not capable of ensuring
                                   compliance with obligations to customers.


                             Complying with financial services and credit laws

              RG 277.275     As part of holding an AFS licence or a credit licence, licensees must comply
                             with financial services laws or credit legislation respectively: see s912A(1)(c)
                             of the Corporations Act and s47(1)(d) of the National Credit Act.

              RG 277.276     This includes complying with the prohibitions on unconscionable conduct:
                             see s12CA–12CC of the ASIC Act.

              RG 277.277     When communicating with consumers about a remediation, the licensee
                             should ensure it is not engaging in misleading or deceptive conduct (see
                             s12DA of the ASIC Act), or making any false or misleading representations:
                             see s12DB of the ASIC Act.


                             Having available adequate resources

              RG 277.278     With limited exceptions for some APRA-regulated bodies that are subject to
                             other obligations, licensees must have available adequate resources
                             (including financial, technological and human resources) to provide the
                             financial services, or engage in the credit activities, authorised by the licence
                             and to carry out supervisory arrangements: see s912A(1)(d) of the
                             Corporations Act and s47(1)(l) of the National Credit Act.


© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                                  Page 80
                                                                      REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




              RG 277.279     If a licensee does not have adequate resources to conduct the remediation
                             (when appropriate), and to provide remedies to consumers, the licensee may
                             be in breach of this obligation.

              RG 277.280     See RG 277.203–RG 277.209 for more detail about what constitutes
                             adequate resources in the context of a remediation.


                             Ensuring proper monitoring and supervision

              RG 277.281     Licensees must:
                             (a)   take reasonable steps to ensure that authorised representatives comply
                                   with the financial services laws or credit legislation (see s912A(1)(ca)
                                   of the Corporations Act and s47(1)(e) of the National Credit Act); and
                             (b)   ensure that authorised representatives are adequately trained, and
                                   competent to provide the financial services or engage in credit activities
                                   authorised by the licence (see s912A(1)(f) of the Corporations Act and
                                   s47(1)(g) of the National Credit Act).

              RG 277.282     When the misconduct or other failure is identified in relation to an existing
                             representative, licensees should take steps to rectify any deficiencies in the
                             representative’s behaviour, and any resulting detriment should be remedied
                             where appropriate.

                                   Note: See RG 104 and RG 205 for further information.


                             Dispute resolution systems

              RG 277.283     For guidance on dispute resolution system obligations, and how to manage
                             the interaction with remediation, see RG 277.172–RG 277.187.



Arrangements for compensating consumers
              RG 277.284     Under s912B of the Corporations Act, and s48 of the National Credit Act, a
                             licensee must have arrangements for compensating consumers for loss or
                             damage suffered because of a breach of the relevant obligations under
                             Chapter 7 of the Corporations Act or contraventions of the National Credit Act
                             by the licensee or its representatives.

              RG 277.285     These arrangements must:
                             (a)   satisfy the requirements for licensees to have PI insurance that is
                                   adequate, considering the nature of the licensee’s business and its
                                   potential liability for compensation claims (see reg 7.6.02AAA of the
                                   Corporations Regulations and reg 12 of the National Credit
                                   Regulations); or




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                        Page 81
                                                                        REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




                             (b)   be approved by ASIC as alternative arrangements.

                                   Note 1: Regulatory Guide 126 Compensation and insurance arrangements for AFS
                                   licensees (RG 126) and Regulatory Guide 210 Compensation and insurance
                                   arrangements for credit licensees (RG 210) set out what ASIC regards as the minimum
                                   requirements for adequate PI insurance. The guides also provide information about
                                   when we will approve alternative arrangements.

                                   Note 2: The Corporations Regulations and National Credit Regulations provide
                                   exemptions from the requirements to have compensation arrangements for some
                                   licensees that are regulated by APRA or are related to an entity regulated by APRA,
                                   however these entities are subject to other obligations.

                                   Note 3: See also RG 277.250–RG 277.252.

              RG 277.286     Section 52(8) of the SIS Act requires superannuation trustees to formulate
                             and give effect to a risk management strategy, and to maintain capital, a
                             reserve, or both, covering the entity’s operational risk.

                                   Note: Further detail about the size of this reserve and how it may be used is set out in
                                   APRA’s Prudential Standard SPS 114 Operational Risk Financial Requirement. It notes
                                   that examples of operational risks that may lead to operational risk events are provided
                                   in APRA’s Prudential Practice Guide SPG 220 Risk management. This guide can be
                                   accessed from the Prudential and reporting standards for superannuation webpage on
                                   APRA’s website.

              RG 277.287     AFCA may make a determination awarding compensation for financial loss
                             related to personal advice, credit intermediation, securities dealing or credit
                             provision. If this determination remains unpaid, the Compensation Scheme
                             of Last Resort (CSLR) may pay compensation up to a threshold. More
                             information about the CSLR is available on the CSLR website.



Obligations relating to superannuation trustees and fund managers
              RG 277.288     Superannuation trustees must hold an AFS licence and are subject to the
                             terms of the trust deed, general law duties and statutory duties and
                             obligations under legislation that includes the Corporations Act and the SIS
                             Act—for example, doing all things necessary to provide the financial
                             services covered by its licence efficiently, honestly and fairly (s912A(1)(a)
                             of the Corporations Act) and to comply with the covenants in s52(2) of the
                             SIS Act. Importantly, decisions about remediation (including the manner and
                             extent in which to remediate) must be made in the context of complying with
                             all of a superannuation trustee’s relevant legal obligations.

              RG 277.289     Fund managers of registered managed investment schemes also have
                             additional general law and statutory obligations—for example, to act
                             honestly and in the best interests of their members.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                                  Page 82
                                                                    REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




              RG 277.290     Superannuation trustees should document decisions concerning remediation,
                             including the manner and extent of remediation. The trustee should be able
                             to provide evidence on request that their decision was, for example:
                             (a)   in the best financial interests of members; and
                             (b)   compliant with their other obligations such as those under the
                                   Corporations Act.

              RG 277.291     There may be times when a third-party licensee (such as an advice business,
                             insurer or administrator) is conducting a remediation for misconduct or other
                             failure affecting a superannuation trustee’s or fund manager’s members.
                             Depending on the nature of the misconduct or other failure and the
                             contractual relationship(s), trustees and fund managers may have obligations
                             relating to pursuing and/or facilitating remediation payments from
                             third-party licensees, such as obligations to ‘get in’ trust or scheme property
                             and to ensure a member’s account is made whole.

              RG 277.292     This guidance is general only and will not take into account particular
                             circumstances, trust deeds, duties or obligations specific to a fund or scheme.



Design and distribution obligations
              RG 277.293     Issuers and distributors of financial products must comply with the design
                             and distribution obligations in Pt 7.8A of the Corporations Act. These
                             obligations are intended to help consumers obtain appropriate financial
                             products by requiring issuers and distributors to have a consumer-centric
                             approach to designing and distributing products.

              RG 277.294     If a consumer suffers loss or damage due to a licensee’s breach of the design
                             and distribution obligations in s994B, 994C, 994D, 994E(1) or (3) of the
                             Corporations Act, they can seek to recover that loss or damage in court by
                             taking action against the entity.

              RG 277.295     When a consumer has suffered loss or damage—whether monetary or non-
                             monetary, or both—as a result of an entity’s breach of the design and
                             distribution obligations, we expect that the entity will remediate. This may
                             include (but is not limited to):
                             (a)   waiving any conditions or obligations on the consumer under contract;
                             (b)   terminating the contract at no cost or disadvantage to the consumer;
                             (c)   refunding any money paid by the consumer plus interest;
                             (d)   providing free remedial financial advice; and
                             (e)   moving the consumer into an appropriate product.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                      Page 83
                                                                     REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




Record-keeping obligations
              RG 277.296     Licensees have a number of record-keeping obligations that refer to different
                             record-retention periods (if any). These obligations are relevant to the
                             identification of misconduct or other failures and its impact on consumers, as
                             well as how efficiently a remediation will run.

              RG 277.297     Specific record-keeping obligations apply for AFS licensees and for credit
                             licensees, including in relation to their authorised representatives and credit
                             representatives respectively.

                                   Note: See Regulatory Guide 175 Licensing: Financial product advisers—Conduct and
                                   disclosure (RG 175), ASIC Instrument 2024/508 and RG 205.

              RG 277.298     Superannuation trustees have additional record-keeping obligations as set
                             out under the SIS Act, SIS Regulations, and APRA prudential and reporting
                             standards. For example, under s103 of the SIS Act, trustees must keep, and
                             retain for at least 10 years, minutes of all meetings at which matters affecting
                             the entity were considered. Section 105 of the SIS Act requires trustees to
                             keep copies of all member or beneficiary reports for at least 10 years.

              RG 277.299     If a licensee outsources the record-keeping functions or allows a
                             representative to hold records, the licensee remains responsible for
                             complying with these obligations. Licensees should ensure that records held
                             by a third party are readily accessible.

              RG 277.300     If licensees have absent records as a result of breaches of record-keeping
                             obligations and as a result cannot determine all consumers affected or what
                             they are owed, we expect the licensee to apply assumptions where
                             appropriate: see RG 277.126–RG 277.128.


                             Documenting the remediation

              RG 277.301     Licensees should ensure proper systems and processes are in place to
                             document and record the remediation.

              RG 277.302     Other than specific record-keeping obligations imposed on licensees, record-
                             keeping requirements are implied by the general duties imposed under s912A
                             of the Corporations Act and s47 of the National Credit Act. The relevant
                             duties of a licensee that imply such a record-keeping obligation include:
                             (a)   the duty to do all things necessary to ensure that the financial services
                                   and credit activities covered by the licence are provided efficiently,
                                   honestly and fairly (see s912A(1)(a) and s47(1), respectively);
                             (b)   the duties to comply with the financial services and credit legislation
                                   and to take all reasonable steps to ensure its representatives comply
                                   with these laws (see s912A(1)(c)–(ca) and s47(1)(d)–(e), respectively);




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                            Page 84
                                                                        REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




                             (c)   the duty to have an adequate dispute resolution system (see s912A(1)(g)
                                   and s47(1)(h), respectively); and
                             (d)   the duty to have adequate risk management systems in place (see
                                   s912A(1)(h) and s47(1)(l), respectively).

              RG 277.303     AFS licensees and credit licensees also have a duty to take reasonable steps
                             to ensure that their representatives comply with the obligations under the
                             Corporations Act and National Credit Act.

              RG 277.304     The notify, investigate and remediate obligations impose criminal sanctions
                             on particular licensees for failing to maintain records to demonstrate compliance
                             with the requirement to notify, investigate and remediate misconduct.

                                   Note: See s912EC(1) of the Corporations Act and s51C of the National Credit Act.




Breach reporting obligations
              RG 277.305     AFS licensees and credit licensees must report to ASIC a range of conduct
                             that the law describes as ‘reportable situations’: see s912DAA of the
                             Corporations Act and s50B of the National Credit Act. This may include
                             conduct engaged in during the remediation process in breach of s912A(1)(a)
                             of the Corporations Act or s47 of the National Credit Act, if it constitutes a
                             significant breach.

                                   Note: For guidance about what is a reportable situation, see Section B of RG 78 and at
                                   Example 3(g) of Table 2: Examples of deemed significant breaches.

              RG 277.306     AFS licensees and credit licensees must report to ASIC using the prescribed
                             form (through the ASIC Regulatory Portal) within 30 days after first
                             knowing, or are reckless with respect to whether, there are reasonable
                             grounds to believe a reportable situation has arisen: see s912DAA(2)–(3) of
                             the Corporations Act, and s50C(2) and 50B(4) of the National Credit Act.

              RG 277.307     Reportable situations include (among other things) breaches that are deemed
                             significant, such as breaches of some civil penalty provisions, and breaches
                             resulting in, or likely to result in, material loss or damage to consumers. This
                             can include material loss or damage for one consumer: see RG 78 at Table 2.
                             Other breaches may be significant having regard to certain factors under
                             s912D(5) of the Corporations Act or s50A(5) of the National Credit Act.

              RG 277.308     Many remediations will result from reportable situations. When lodging the
                             prescribed reportable situation form, licensees must provide details of any
                             remediation that has been or is being developed to compensate consumers
                             who have suffered loss, including expected timeframes, and should provide
                             information about the completion of remediation.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                                  Page 85
                                                                        REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




              RG 277.309     If the misconduct or other failure is not reportable to ASIC, but requires
                             compensation to consumers or needs to be rectified in some other way, we
                             expect licensees to take appropriate remedial action even though they are not
                             required to report the breach. In other words, licensees should be
                             remediating misconduct or other failures regardless of whether they are
                             reportable situations.



Obligations to notify, investigate and remediate
              RG 277.310     AFS licensees that provide personal advice to retail clients and credit
                             licensees that provide mortgage broking services to consumers (and their
                             representatives) must follow the notify, investigate and remediate obligations
                             in certain circumstances: see INFO 259. Licensees must consider these
                             obligations in the context of their broader obligations under the existing
                             remediation framework.

              RG 277.311     If the obligations are triggered, the licensee must notify the affected
                             consumers of the reportable situation, investigate the nature and full extent
                             of the reportable situation and remediate affected consumers within certain
                             timeframes. Licensees must also maintain records to show compliance with
                             these obligations.

                                   Note: These obligations are set out for AFS licensees in Pt 7.6, Div 3, Subdiv C of the
                                   Corporations Act, and for credit licensees in Pt 2-2, Div 5, Subdiv C of the National
                                   Credit Act.

              RG 277.312     The obligation on AFS licensees and credit licensees to notify, investigate
                             and remediate is broadly as follows:
                             (a)   firstly, when a licensee has reasonable grounds to believe there has been
                                   a certain reportable situation, the licensee must:
                                   (i)    within 30 days, take reasonable steps to notify affected consumers
                                          of the reportable situation; and
                                   (ii)   within 30 days, start an investigation into the nature and full extent
                                          of the reportable situation (including the loss or damage the
                                          affected consumer suffered or will suffer). The investigation
                                          should be completed as soon as is reasonably practicable after it is
                                          commenced; and
                             (b)   secondly, once an investigation is complete, the licensee must:
                                   (i)    within 10 days, take reasonable steps to notify affected consumers
                                          of the outcome of the investigation; and
                                   (ii)   within 30 days, take reasonable steps to pay affected consumers
                                          remediation of an amount equal to the loss or damage.

                                   Note: Under these specific obligations, licensees must pay remediation to a consumer if
                                   they reasonably believe the consumer has suffered or will suffer loss or damage as a



© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                                   Page 86
                                                                         REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




                                   result of the reportable situation, and the consumer has a legally enforceable right to
                                   recover that loss or damage.

              RG 277.313     These obligations are aimed at a subset of licensees (those that provide
                             personal advice and credit assistance) and address conduct that historically
                             remained undetected for undue periods. It does not replace existing
                             obligations, but builds on the existing remediation framework under a
                             licensee’s general obligations. Financial advisers and mortgage brokers will
                             need to conduct remediations in a manner that is consistent with this guide
                             and comply with the obligations to notify, investigate and remediate.

                                   Note: See paragraphs 12.12–12.13 of the Explanatory Memorandum to the Financial
                                   Sector Reform (Hayne Royal Commission Response) Bill 2020 (Explanatory
                                   Memorandum).

              RG 277.314     To illustrate, the Explanatory Memorandum makes clear that in
                             circumstances where a person falls out of scope at any stage of the
                             obligations to notify, investigate and remediate, the licensee must continue
                             to consider the requirements under the existing remediation framework in
                             deciding whether it is efficient, honest and fair to remediate.

                                   Note: See paragraphs 12.33–12.126 of the Explanatory Memorandum and INFO 259 for
                                   more information.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                                     Page 87
                                                                      REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




Key terms


                              Term                      Meaning in this document

                              ACNC                      Australian Charities and Not-for-profits Commission

                              AFCA                      Australian Financial Complaints Authority—the external
                                                        dispute resolution scheme for which an authorisation
                                                        under Pt 7.10A of the Corporations Act is in force

                              AFCA’s Operational        AFCA Operational Guidelines to the Rules
                              Guidelines

                              AFCA’s Rules              AFCA Complaint Resolution Scheme Rules


                              affected consumer         Refers to both a client and a consumer as these terms
                                                        are defined in the Corporations Act and the National
                                                        Credit Act

                              AFS licence               An Australian financial services licence under s913B of
                                                        the Corporations Act that authorises a person who carries
                                                        on a financial services business to provide financial
                                                        services
                                                          Note: This is a definition contained in s761A.

                              AFS licensee              A person who holds an AFS licence under s913B of the
                                                        Corporations Act

                              APRA                      Australian Prudential Regulation Authority

                              ASIC                      Australian Securities and Investments Commission

                              ASIC Act                  Australian Securities and Investments Commission Act
                                                        2001

                              ATO                       Australian Taxation Office

                              Banking Act               Banking Act 1959

                              consumer                  A person or small business, which includes, at a
                                                        minimum:
                                                         an individual consumer or guarantor;
                                                         a superannuation fund member or a third-party
                                                          beneficiary eligible to make a complaint to AFCA under
                                                          s1053, or taken to be a member of a regulated
                                                          superannuation fund or approved deposit fund, or a
                                                          holder of an RSA, as provided for by s1053A, but
                                                          excludes shareholders; and
                                                         a small business as defined in modified s761G of the
                                                          Corporations Act
                                                          Note: This definition includes a former and/or current
                                                          customer.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                                  Page 88
                                                                     REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




                              Term                      Meaning in this document

                              Corporations Act          Corporations Act 2001, including regulations made for the
                                                        purposes of that Act

                              Corporations              Corporations Regulations 2001
                              Regulations

                              credit activity (or       Has the meaning given in s6 of the National Credit Act
                              credit activities)

                              credit assistance         Has the meaning given in s8 of the National Credit Act

                              credit licence            An Australian credit licence under s35 of the National
                                                        Credit Act that authorises a licensee to engage in
                                                        particular credit activities

                              credit licensee           A person who holds a credit licence under s35 of the
                                                        National Credit Act

                              CSLR                      Compensation Scheme of Last Resort

                              EFT                       Electronic funds transfer

                              enforcement action        Includes ‘enforcement proceedings’ as defined in the
                                                        National Credit Act, Schedule 1 (National Credit Code),
                                                        and the giving of default notices, which is required before
                                                        commencing enforcement proceedings under s88 of the
                                                        National Credit Code

                              financial service         Has the meaning given in Div 4 of Pt 7.1 of the
                                                        Corporations Act

                              IDR procedures (or        The internal dispute resolution procedures that meet the
                              IDR processes)            requirements and standards made and approved by ASIC
                                                        under RG 271 and ASIC Instrument 2020/98

                              INFO 232 (for             An ASIC information sheet (in this example numbered
                              example)                  232)

                              Insurance Act             Insurance Act 1973

                              Insurance Contracts       Insurance Contracts Act 1984
                              Act

                              licence                   An AFS licence, credit licence or RSE licence

                              licensee                  An AFS licensee or a credit licensee

                              Life Insurance Act        Life Insurance Act 1995

                              loss                      Includes actual or potential loss, detriment or
                                                        disadvantage suffered by one or more consumers. Loss
                                                        could be monetary or non-monetary, or both

                              Making it right           Making it right: How to run a consumer-centred
                                                        remediation




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                            Page 89
                                                                      REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




                              Term                      Meaning in this document

                              managed investment        Has the meaning given in s9 of the Corporations Act
                              scheme

                              member                    A member of a superannuation entity, and includes a
                                                        prospective member

                              misconduct or other       Misconduct or other failure relating to the provision of
                              failure                   financial services or engagement in credit activities
                                                        covered under or authorised by a licensee’s relevant
                                                        licence. It covers conduct described in RG 277.22–
                                                        RG 277.29
                                                          Note: Misconduct or other failure extends to the decisions,
                                                          omissions and behaviour of a licensee, and its current and
                                                          former authorised representatives, third-party service or
                                                          product providers, consultants and other significant related
                                                          entities.

                              National Credit Act       National Consumer Credit Protection Act 2009

                              National Credit           National Consumer Credit Protection Regulations 2010
                              Regulations

                              notify, investigate,      Obligations for AFS licensees under in Pt 7.6, Div 3,
                              and remediate             Subdiv C of the Corporations Act, and credit licensees in
                              obligations               Pt 2-2, Div 5, Subdiv C of the National Credit Act

                              non-financial loss        Where the consumer has experienced an unusual
                                                        amount of:
                                                         physical inconvenience;
                                                         time taken to resolve a situation;
                                                         interference with the consumer’s expectation of
                                                          enjoyment or peace of mind.
                                                        If the misconduct or other failure relates to privacy rights,
                                                        and includes situations where the consumer has suffered
                                                        humiliation or injured feelings.

                              PI insurance              Professional indemnity insurance

                              RBA                       Reserve Bank of Australia

                              remediation               A process, large or small, to investigate the scope of the
                                                        misconduct or other failure and, if appropriate, return
                                                        consumers who have suffered loss as a result of the
                                                        misconduct or other failure to the position they would
                                                        have otherwise been in, as closely as possible

                              remediation payment       An amount of money owed to a consumer as a result of a
                                                        remediation process.
                                                          Note: For taxation purposes, the amount may not be
                                                          characterised as a remediation payment as this will depend on
                                                          the context and individual circumstances.




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                                  Page 90
                                                                      REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




                              Term                      Meaning in this document

                              representative            Means:
                                                         a person authorised in accordance with s916A or 916B
                                                          of the Corporations Act to provide a financial service or
                                                          financial services on behalf of the AFS licensee; and
                                                         a representative of a credit licensee, as defined in s5 of
                                                          the National Credit Act

                              residual remediation      Remediation money that cannot be returned to affected
                              payment                   consumers despite reasonable endeavours, which is paid
                                                        to a charity or not-for-profit organisation registered with
                                                        the ACNC

                              RG 104 (for example)      An ASIC regulatory guide (in this example numbered
                                                        104)

                              RSA                       A retirement savings account as defined in the RSA Act

                              RSA Act                   Retirement Savings Accounts Act 1997

                              RSA provider              A retirement savings account provider

                              RSE                       A registrable superannuation entity (e.g. a regulated
                                                        superannuation fund)

                              RSE licence               A registrable superannuation entity licence (granted by
                                                        APRA)

                              RSE licensee              A registrable superannuation entity licensee—has the
                                                        meaning given in s10 of the SIS Act

                              s912A (for example)       A section of the Corporations Act (in this example
                                                        numbered 912A), unless otherwise specified

                              significant related       A body corporate that is a subsidiary of the licensee, and
                              entity                    has or is likely to have an effect on the licensee (or its
                                                        business or activities) that is material and substantial, and
                                                        is a constitutionally covered body.
                                                          Note: A significant related entity of a RSE licensee is the
                                                          same, but instead of a subsidiary, the body corporate must be
                                                          a connected entity of the RSE licensee.

                              SIS Act                   Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993

                              SIS Regulations           Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Regulations 1994

                              superannuation fund       Has the meaning given in s10(1) of the SIS Act

                              superannuation            A body corporate or group of individual trustees licensed by
                              trustee                   APRA under s29D of the SIS Act to operate a registrable
                                                        superannuation entity (e.g. superannuation fund)

                              systemic issue            A matter that affects, or has the potential to affect, more
                                                        than one consumer

                              Unclaimed Money Act       Superannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members)
                                                        Act 1999




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                                Page 91
                                                                        REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




Related information


                             Headnotes

                             adequate resources, AFCA, AFS licensees, APRA, assumptions, ATO,
                             compensation, consumer remediation, credit licensees, detriment or
                             disadvantage, file reviews, fund managers, general licensing obligations,
                             governance arrangements, IDR, independent expert, licensee, loss, managed
                             investment schemes, misconduct or other failure, PI insurance, record
                             keeping, remediation, retail client, RSA provider, settlement deeds,
                             superannuation trustees, tax, unit pricing


                             Regulatory guides

                             RG 78 Breach reporting by AFS licensees and credit licensees

                             RG 94 Unit pricing: Guide to good practice

                             RG 100 Court enforceable undertakings

                             RG 104 AFS licensing: Meeting the general obligations

                             RG 111 Content of expert reports

                             RG 112 Independence of experts

                             RG 126 Compensation and insurance arrangements for AFS licensees

                             RG 175 AFS licensing: Financial product advisers—Conduct and disclosure

                             RG 181 AFS licensing: Managing conflicts of interest

                             RG 205 Credit licensing: General conduct obligations

                             RG 210 Compensation and insurance arrangements for credit licensees

                             RG 256 Client review and remediation conducted by advice licensees

                                   Note: RG 256 only applies to a remediation that was initiated before 27 September 2022.

                             RG 267 Oversight of the Australian Financial Complaints Authority

                             RG 271 Internal dispute resolution

                             RG 274 Product design and distribution obligations




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                                  Page 92
                                                                    REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




                             Information sheets

                             INFO 28 About the court enforceable undertakings register

                             INFO 90 Notifying members about superannuation transfers without consent

                             INFO 152 Public comment on ASIC’s regulatory activities

                             INFO 232 Fees for no service: Remediation

                             INFO 254 Debt management services: Applying for a credit licence or
                             variation

                             INFO 259 Complying with the notify, investigate and remediate obligations


                             Legislative instruments

                             ASIC Corporations, Credit and Superannuation (Internal Dispute
                             Resolution) Instrument 2020/98

                             ASIC Corporations (Record-Keeping Requirements for Australian Financial
                             Services Licensees when Giving Personal Advice) Instrument 2024/508


                             Legislation

                             Australian Securities and Investments Commission Act 2001, s12CA, 12CB,
                             12CC, 12DA, 12DB, 30, 33

                             Banking Act 1959, s62A, 69

                             Banking Regulation 2016, reg 25

                             Corporations Act 2001, Ch 7; Pt 7.6, Div 3, Subdiv C; Pt 7.8; Pt 7.8A;
                             Pt 7.10; s414, 544, 601AD, 601NG, 668A, 668B, 764, 766A, 912A, 912B,
                             912C, 912D, 912DAA, 912EB, 912EC, 994B, 994C, 994D, 994E, 1017E,
                             1017G, 1052E, 1343, 1343A

                             Corporations Regulations 2001, reg 7.6.02AAA

                             Explanatory Memorandum to the Financial Sector Reform (Hayne Royal
                             Commission Response) Bill 2020

                             Insurance Act 1973, s38AA

                             Insurance Contracts Act 1984, s57

                             Insurance Contracts Regulations 1985, reg 38

                             Life Insurance Act 1995, s132A, 216




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                      Page 93
                                                                       REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




                             National Consumer Credit Protection Act 2009, Pt 2; Pt 2-2, Div 5,
                             Subdiv C; s47, 48, 50A, 50B, 50C, 51B, 51C

                             National Consumer Credit Protection Regulations 2010, reg 12

                             Privacy Act 1988

                             Privacy (Credit Reporting) Code 2025

                             Private Health Insurance (Prudential Supervision) Act 2015, s95

                             Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993, s29JA, 52, 101, 103, 105

                             Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Regulations 1994

                             Retirement Savings Accounts Act 1997, s47

                             Treasury Laws Amendment (Reuniting More Superannuation) Bill 2020
                             (Supplementary Explanatory Memorandum)

                             Superannuation (Unclaimed Money and Lost Members) Act 1999, s22


                             Cases

                             Australian Securities and Investments Commission v Commonwealth Bank of
                             Australia [2020] FCA 790


                             Other documents

                             AFCA Complaint Resolution Scheme Rules

                             AFCA Operational Guidelines to the Rules

                             ATO, Compensation received by super funds from financial institutions and
                             insurance providers

                             ATO, Deficient financial advice

                             ATO, Fees where no service is provided

                             ATO, Overcharged insurance premiums

                             ATO, PAYG withholding and reporting obligations relating to remediation
                             payments
                             ATO, Super contribution caps

                             Making it right: How to run a consumer-centred remediation

                             SPG 220 Risk management

                                   Note: SPG 220 can be accessed from the Prudential and reporting standards for
                                   superannuation webpage on APRA’s website.



© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                                  Page 94
                                                                    REGULATORY GUIDE 277: Consumer remediation




                             SPS 114 Operational Risk Financial Requirement




© Australian Securities and Investments Commission September 2022                                      Page 95
