SOURCE: https://www.legislation.gov.au/F2023L01242/asmade/2023-09-14/text/original/pdf
FINAL URL: https://www.legislation.gov.au/F2023L01242/asmade/2023-09-14/text/original/pdf
FETCHED: 2026-10-10

Banking, Insurance, Life Insurance, Health
Insurance and Superannuation (prudential
standard) determination No. 2 of 2023
Prudential Standard CPS 230 Operational Risk Management

Banking Act 1959
Insurance Act 1973
Life Insurance Act 1995
Private Health Insurance (Prudential Supervision) Act 2015
Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993

I, John Lonsdale, a delegate of APRA:

(a)   under subsections 11AF(3) of the Banking Act, 32(4) of the Insurance Act, and
      230A(5) of the Life Insurance Act, REVOKE Banking, Insurance and Life
      Insurance (prudential standard) determination No. 6 of 2016 including
      Prudential Standard CPS 231 Outsourcing made under that determination;

(b)   under subsections 11AF(3) of the Banking Act, 32(4) of the Insurance Act, and
      230A(5) of the Life Insurance Act, REVOKE Banking, Insurance and Life
      Insurance (prudential standard) determination No. 7 of 2016 including
      Prudential Standard CPS 232 Business Continuity Management made under
      that determination;

(c)   under subsection 92(5) of the PHIPS Act, REVOKE Health Insurance
      (prudential standard) determination No. 4 of 2015, including Prudential
      Standard HPS 231 Outsourcing made under that determination;

(d)   under subsection 34C(6) of the SIS Act, REVOKE Superannuation (prudential
      standard) determination No. 3 of 2012 including, Prudential Standard SPS 231
      Outsourcing made under that determination, and Superannuation (prudential
      standard) determination No. 4 of 2012 including Prudential Standard SPS 232
      Business Continuity Management made under that determination;

(e)   under subsection 11AF(1) of the Banking Act, DETERMINE the prudential
      standard which applies to all ADIs and authorised banking NOHCs;

(f)   under subsection 32(1) of the Insurance Act, DETERMINE the prudential
      standard which applies to all general insurers and authorised insurance
      NOHCs and subsidiaries of general insurers and authorised insurance NOHCs;




                       Authorised Version F2023L01242 registered 14/09/2023
(g)   under subsection 230A(1) of the Life Insurance Act, DETERMINE the
      prudential standard which applies to all life companies, including friendly
      societies, and registered NOHCs;

(h)   under subsection 92(1) of the PHIPS Act, DETERMINE the prudential standard
      which applies to all private health insurers; and

(i)   under subsection 34C(1) of the SIS Act, DETERMINE the prudential standard
      which applies to all RSE licensees.

This instrument commences on 1 July 2025.

Date: 11 September 2023




John Lonsdale
Chair
APRA


Interpretation
In this Determination:
ADI has the meaning given in section 5 of the Banking Act.
APRA means the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority.
authorised banking NOHC has the meaning given to the expression authorised
NOHC in section 5 of the Banking Act.
authorised insurance NOHC has the meaning given to the expression authorised
NOHC in subsection 3(1) of the Insurance Act.
friendly society has the meaning given in section 16C of the Life Insurance Act.
general insurer has the meaning given in section 11 of the Insurance Act.
life company has the meaning given in the Schedule to the Life Insurance Act.
private health insurer has the meaning given in section 4 of the PHIPS Act.
registered NOHC has the meaning given in the Schedule to the Life Insurance Act.
RSE licensee has the meaning given in subsection 10(1) of the SIS Act.
the Banking Act means the Banking Act 1959.
the Insurance Act means the Insurance Act 1973.
the Life Insurance Act means the Life Insurance Act 1995.
the PHIPS Act means the Private Health Insurance (Prudential Supervision) Act
2015.
the prudential standard means Prudential Standard CPS 230 Operational Risk
Management in the form set out in the Schedule.
the SIS Act means the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993.




                         Authorised Version F2023L01242 registered 14/09/2023
Schedule

Prudential Standard CPS 230 Operational Risk Management comprises the
document commencing on the following page.




                   Authorised Version F2023L01242 registered 14/09/2023
                                                                                 July 2025




Prudential Standard CPS 230
Operational Risk Management
Objectives and key requirements of this Prudential
Standard

The aim of this Prudential Standard is to ensure that an APRA-regulated entity is
resilient to operational risks and disruptions. An APRA-regulated entity must
effectively manage its operational risks, maintain its critical operations through
disruptions, and manage the risks arising from service providers.

An APRA-regulated entity’s approach to operational risk must be appropriate to its
size, business mix and complexity. The key requirements of this Prudential Standard
are that an APRA-regulated entity must:

     identify, assess and manage its operational risks, with effective internal controls,
     monitoring and remediation;
     be able to continue to deliver its critical operations within tolerance levels
     through severe disruptions, with a credible business continuity plan (BCP); and
     effectively manage the risks associated with service providers, with a
     comprehensive service provider management policy, formal agreements and
     robust monitoring.




                                                                               CPS 230 – 1
                        Authorised Version F2023L01242 registered 14/09/2023
                                                                                            July 2025


Authority
1.   This Prudential Standard is made under:

     (a)    section 11AF of the Banking Act 1959 (Banking Act);

     (b)    section 32 of the Insurance Act 1973 (Insurance Act);

     (c)    section 230A of the Life Insurance Act 1995 (Life Insurance Act);

     (d)    section 92 of the Private Health Insurance (Prudential Supervision) Act
            2015 (PHIPS Act); and

     (e)    section 34C of the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993
            (SIS Act).

Application and commencement
2.   This Prudential Standard applies to all APRA-regulated entities defined as:

     (a)    authorised deposit-taking institutions (ADIs), including foreign ADIs,
            and non-operating holding companies authorised under the Banking Act
            (authorised banking NOHCs);

     (b)    general insurers, including Category C insurers, non-operating holding
            companies authorised under the Insurance Act (authorised insurance
            NOHCs) and parent entities of Level 2 insurance groups;

     (c)    life companies, including friendly societies, eligible foreign life
            insurance companies (EFLICs) and registered NOHCs;

     (d)    private health insurers registered under the PHIPS Act; and

     (e)    registrable superannuation entity licensees (RSE licensees) under the SIS
            Act in respect of their business operations.1

3.   The obligations imposed by this Prudential Standard on, or in relation to, a
     foreign ADI, a Category C insurer and an EFLIC apply only in relation to the
     Australian branch operations of that entity.

4.   Where an APRA-regulated entity is the Head of a group,2 it must comply with a
     requirement of this Prudential Standard:

     (a)    in its capacity as an APRA-regulated entity;

1
     RSE licensee has the meaning given in subsection 10(1) of the SIS Act. For the purposes of this
     Prudential Standard, an RSE licensee’s business operations includes all activities of an RSE
     licensee, including the activities of each RSE of which it is the licensee, and all other activities
     of the RSE licensee to the extent that they are relevant to, or may impact on, its activities as an
     RSE licensee.
2
     Where a Level 2 group operates within a Level 3 group, a requirement expressed as applying to
     a Head of a group is to be read as applying to the Level 3 Head.



                                                                                         CPS 230 – 2
                           Authorised Version F2023L01242 registered 14/09/2023
                                                                                          July 2025


      (b)    by ensuring that the requirement is applied appropriately throughout the
             group,3 including in relation to entities that are not APRA-regulated; and

      (c)    on a group basis.

5.    In applying the requirements of this Prudential Standard on a group basis,
      references to an APRA-regulated entity are to be read as ‘Head of a group’ and
      references to entity are to be read as ‘group’.

6.    This Prudential Standard commences on 1 July 2025.

7.    Where an APRA-regulated entity has pre-existing contractual arrangements in
      place with a service provider, the requirements in this Prudential Standard will
      apply in relation to those arrangements from the earlier of the next renewal date
      of the contract with the service provider or 1 July 2026.

Interpretation
8.    Terms that are defined in Prudential Standard APS 001 Definitions, Prudential
      Standard GPS 001 Definitions, Prudential Standard LPS 001 Definitions,
      Prudential Standard HPS 001 Definitions or Prudential Standard 3PS 001
      Definitions appear in bold the first time they are used in this Prudential
      Standard.

9.    In this Prudential Standard, unless the contrary intention appears, a reference to
      an Act, Regulation or Prudential Standard is a reference to the Act, Regulation
      or Prudential Standard as in force from time to time.

10.   Where this Prudential Standard provides for APRA to exercise a power or
      discretion, the power or discretion is to be exercised in writing.

Adjustments and exclusions
11.   APRA may adjust or exclude a specific prudential requirement in this Prudential
      Standard in relation to an APRA-regulated entity.4




3
      Group means a Level 2 group, Level 3 group or a group comprising the RSE licensee and all
      connected entities (as defined in subsection 10(1) of the SIS Act) and all related bodies
      corporate (with the meaning given in section 50 of the Corporations Act 2001) of the RSE
      licensee, as relevant. Level 2 group means the entities that comprise Level 2 (for ADIs) or Level
      2 insurance groups (for general insurers). For the avoidance of doubt, group includes a group as
      defined in APS 001 and, for an RSE licensee, where the RSE licensee is part of a corporate
      group.
4
      Refer to subsection 11AF(2) of the Banking Act, subsection 32(3D) of the Insurance Act,
      subsection 230A(4) of the Life Insurance Act, subsection 92(4) of the PHIPS Act and subsection
      34C(5) of the SIS Act.



                                                                                       CPS 230 – 3
                            Authorised Version F2023L01242 registered 14/09/2023
                                                                                 July 2025


Key principles
12.   An APRA-regulated entity must:

      (a)   effectively manage its operational risks, and set and maintain appropriate
            standards for conduct and compliance;

      (b)   maintain its critical operations within tolerance levels through severe
            disruptions; and

      (c)   manage the risks associated with the use of service providers.

13.   An APRA-regulated entity must identify, assess and manage operational risks
      that may result from inadequate or failed internal processes or systems, the
      actions or inactions of people or external drivers and events. Operational risk is
      inherent in all products, activities, processes and systems.

14.   An APRA-regulated entity must, to the extent practicable, prevent disruption to
      critical operations, adapt processes and systems to continue to operate within
      tolerance levels in the event of a disruption and return to normal operations
      promptly once a disruption is over.

15.   An APRA-regulated entity must not rely on a service provider unless it can
      ensure that in doing so it can continue to meet its prudential obligations in full
      and effectively manage the associated risks.

Risk management framework
16.   As part of its risk management framework required under Prudential Standard
      CPS 220 Risk Management (CPS 220) and Prudential Standard SPS 220 Risk
      Management (SPS 220), an APRA-regulated entity must develop and maintain:

      (a)   governance arrangements for the oversight of operational risk;

      (b)   an assessment of its operational risk profile, with a defined risk appetite
            supported by indicators, limits and tolerance levels;

      (c)   internal controls that are designed and operating effectively for the
            management of operational risks;

      (d)   appropriate monitoring, analysis and reporting of operational risks and
            escalation processes for operational incidents and events;

      (e)   business continuity plan(s) (BCPs) that set out how the entity would
            identify, manage and respond to a disruption within tolerance levels and
            are regularly tested with severe but plausible scenarios; and

      (f)   processes for the management of service provider arrangements.

17.   As part of the required reviews of the risk management framework under
      CPS 220 and SPS 220, an APRA-regulated entity must review its operational



                                                                               CPS 230 – 4
                        Authorised Version F2023L01242 registered 14/09/2023
                                                                                          July 2025


      risk management.5 The reviews must cover those aspects of operational risk
      management set out in paragraph 16.

18.   Operational risk management must be integrated into an APRA-regulated
      entity’s overall risk management framework and processes. Business continuity
      planning must be consistent with, and not conflict or undermine, an APRA-
      regulated entity’s recovery and exit planning.6

19.   Where APRA considers that an APRA-regulated entity’s operational risk
      management has material weaknesses, APRA may:

      (a)    require an independent review of the entity’s operational risk
             management;

      (b)    require the entity to develop a remediation program;

      (c)    require the entity to hold additional capital, as relevant;7

      (d)    impose conditions on the entity’s licence; and

      (e)    take other actions required in the supervision of this Prudential Standard.

Roles and responsibilities
20.   The Board of an APRA-regulated entity is ultimately accountable for oversight
      of an entity’s operational risk management. This includes business continuity
      and the management of service provider arrangements.8

21.   The Board must ensure that the APRA-regulated entity sets clear roles and
      responsibilities for senior managers9 for operational risk management,
      including business continuity and the management of service provider
      arrangements.

22.   The Board must:

      (a)    oversee operational risk management and the effectiveness of key internal
             controls in maintaining the entity’s operational risk profile within risk
             appetite. The Board must be provided with regular updates on the APRA-


5
      Refer to CPS 220 and SPS 220 for the requirement to undertake a review of the risk
      management framework.
6
      Refer to Prudential Standard CPS 190 Recovery and Exit Planning.
7
      For an RSE licensee, APRA may require an RSE licensee to meet an ORFR target amount
      determined by APRA under Prudential Standard SPS 114 Operational Risk Financial
      Requirement.
8
      For an RSE licensee, a reference to the Board is to be read as a reference to the Board of
      directors or group of individual trustees of an RSE licensee, as applicable. ‘Group of individual
      trustees’ has the meaning given in subsection 10(1) of the SIS Act. A reference to the Board in
      the case of a foreign ADI is a reference to the senior officer outside Australia.
9
      Senior manager in relation to life insurers has the meaning given in the Life Insurance Act, `and
      in relation to RSE licensees has the meaning given in Prudential Standard SPS 520 Fit and
      Proper.



                                                                                       CPS 230 – 5
                            Authorised Version F2023L01242 registered 14/09/2023
                                                                                    July 2025


            regulated entity’s operational risk profile and ensure senior management
            takes action as required to address any areas of concern;

      (b)   approve the BCP and tolerance levels for disruptions to critical operations,
            review the results of testing and oversee the execution of any findings;
            and

      (c)   approve the service provider management policy, and review risk and
            performance reporting on material service providers.

23.   Senior management of an APRA-regulated entity must provide clear and
      comprehensive information to the Board on the expected impacts on the entity’s
      critical operations when the Board is making decisions that could affect the
      resilience of critical operations.

Operational risk management
24.   An APRA-regulated entity must manage its full range of operational risks,
      including but not limited to legal risk, regulatory risk, compliance risk, conduct
      risk, technology risk, data risk and change management risk. Senior
      management are responsible for operational risk management across the end-to-
      end process for all business operations.

25.   An APRA-regulated entity must maintain appropriate and sound information
      and information technology (IT) capability to meet its current and projected
      business requirements and to support its critical operations and risk
      management. In managing technology risks, an APRA-regulated entity must
      monitor the age and health of its information assets and meet the requirements
      for information security in Prudential Standard CPS 234 Information Security
      (CPS 234).

Operational risk profile and assessment

26.   An APRA-regulated entity must assess the impact of its business and strategic
      decisions on its operational risk profile and operational resilience, as part of its
      business and strategic planning processes.10 This must include an assessment of
      the impact of new products, services, geographies and technologies on its
      operational risk profile.

27.   An APRA-regulated entity must maintain a comprehensive assessment of its
      operational risk profile. As part of this, an APRA-regulated entity must:

      (a)   maintain appropriate and effective information systems to monitor
            operational risk, compile and analyse operational risk data and facilitate
            reporting to the Board and senior management;



10
      Refer to Prudential Standard SPS 515 Strategic Planning and Member Outcomes for
      requirements applying to an RSE licensee with respect to strategic objectives and business
      planning.



                                                                                 CPS 230 – 6
                          Authorised Version F2023L01242 registered 14/09/2023
                                                                                       July 2025


      (b)   identify and document the processes and resources needed to deliver
            critical operations, including people, technology, information, facilities
            and service providers, the interdependencies across them, and the
            associated risks, obligations, key data and controls; and

      (c)   undertake scenario analysis to identify and assess the potential impact of
            severe operational risk events, test its operational resilience and identify
            the need for new or amended controls and other mitigation strategies.

28.   An APRA-regulated entity must conduct a comprehensive risk assessment
      before providing a material service to another party, to ensure that the APRA-
      regulated entity is able to continue to meet its prudential obligations after
      entering into the arrangement. APRA may require an APRA-regulated entity to
      review and strengthen internal controls or processes where APRA considers
      there to be heightened prudential risks in such circumstances.

Operational risk controls
29.   An APRA-regulated entity must design, implement and embed internal controls
      to mitigate its operational risks in line with its risk appetite and meet its
      compliance obligations.

30.   An APRA-regulated entity must regularly monitor, review and test controls for
      design and operating effectiveness, the frequency of which must be
      commensurate with the materiality of the risks being controlled. The results of
      testing must be reported to senior management and any gaps or deficiencies in
      the control environment must be rectified in a timely manner.

31.   An APRA-regulated entity must remediate material weaknesses in its
      operational risk management, including control gaps, weaknesses and failures.
      This remediation must be supported by clear accountabilities and assurance and
      address the root causes of weaknesses in a timely manner. An APRA-regulated
      entity must include identified control gaps, weaknesses and failures in its
      operational risk profile until such matters are remediated.

Operational risk incidents

32.   An APRA-regulated entity must ensure that operational risk incidents and near
      misses are identified, escalated, recorded and addressed in a timely manner. An
      APRA-regulated entity must take incidents and near misses into account in its
      assessment of its operational risk profile and control effectiveness in a timely
      manner.

33.   An APRA-regulated entity must notify APRA as soon as possible, and not later
      than 72 hours, after becoming aware of an operational risk incident that it
      determines to be likely to have a material financial impact or a material impact
      on the ability of the entity to maintain its critical operations.11

11
      A notification of an information security incident reported under CPS 234 does not need to be
      separately reported under the notification requirements of this Prudential Standard.



                                                                                    CPS 230 – 7
                           Authorised Version F2023L01242 registered 14/09/2023
                                                                                   July 2025


Business continuity
34.   An APRA-regulated entity must:

      (a)   define, identify and maintain a register of its critical operations;

      (b)   take reasonable steps to minimise the likelihood and impact of disruptions
            to its critical operations;

      (c)   maintain a credible BCP that sets out how it would maintain its critical
            operations within tolerance levels through disruptions, including disaster
            recovery planning for critical information assets;12

      (d)   activate its BCP if needed in the event of a disruption; and

      (e)   return to normal operations promptly after a disruption is over.

Critical operations and tolerance levels

35.   Critical operations are processes undertaken by an APRA-regulated entity or its
      service provider which, if disrupted beyond tolerance levels, would have a
      material adverse impact on its depositors, policyholders, beneficiaries or other
      customers, or its role in the financial system.

36.   An APRA-regulated entity must, at a minimum, classify the following business
      operations as critical operations, unless it can justify otherwise:

      (a)   for an ADI: payments, deposit-taking and management, custody,
            settlements and clearing;

      (b)   for an insurer (general, life, private health): claims processing;

      (c)   for an RSE licensee: investment management and fund administration;
            and

      (d)   for all APRA-regulated entities: customer enquiries and the systems and
            infrastructure needed to support critical operations.

37.   APRA may require an APRA-regulated entity, or a class of APRA-regulated
      entities, to classify a business operation as a critical operation.

38.   For each critical operation, an APRA-regulated entity must establish tolerance
      levels for:

      (a)   the maximum period of time the entity would tolerate a disruption to the
            operation;



12
      An entity may have a number of BCPs. A BCP may include separate crisis management plans
      and disaster recovery plans.



                                                                                CPS 230 – 8
                         Authorised Version F2023L01242 registered 14/09/2023
                                                                                        July 2025


      (b)   the maximum extent of data loss the entity would accept as a result of a
            disruption; and

      (c)   minimum service levels the entity would maintain while operating under
            alternative arrangements during a disruption.

39.   APRA may require an APRA-regulated entity to review and change its
      tolerance levels for a critical operation. APRA may set tolerance levels for an
      APRA-regulated entity, or a class of APRA-regulated entities, where it
      identifies a heightened risk or material weakness.

Business continuity plan

40.   An APRA-regulated entity’s BCP must include:

      (a)   the register of critical operations and associated tolerance levels;

      (b)   triggers to identify a disruption and prompt activation of the plan, and
            arrangements to direct resources in the event of activation;

      (c)   actions it would take to maintain its critical operations within tolerance
            levels through disruptions;

      (d)   an assessment of the execution risks, required resources, preparatory
            measures, including key internal and external dependencies needed to
            support the effective implementation of the BCP actions; and

      (e)   a communications strategy to support execution of the plan.

41.   An APRA-regulated entity must maintain the capabilities required to execute
      the BCP, including access to people, resources and technology.13 An APRA-
      regulated entity must monitor compliance with its tolerance levels and report
      any failure to meet tolerance levels, together with a remediation plan, to the
      Board.

42.   An APRA-regulated entity must notify APRA as soon as possible, and not later
      than 24 hours after, if it has suffered a disruption to a critical operation outside
      tolerance. The notification must cover the nature of the disruption, the action
      taken, the likely impact on the entity’s business operations and the timeframe
      for returning to normal operations.

Testing and review

43.   An APRA-regulated entity must have a systematic testing program for its BCP
      that covers all critical operations and includes an annual business continuity


13
      Capabilities required to execute the BCP may be maintained within the APRA-regulated entity
      or via an agreement with another party. For the avoidance of doubt, such agreements with other
      parties must meet the requirements for management of service providers arrangements in this
      Prudential Standard.



                                                                                     CPS 230 – 9
                           Authorised Version F2023L01242 registered 14/09/2023
                                                                                        July 2025


      exercise. The program must test the effectiveness of the entity’s BCP and its
      ability to meet tolerance levels in a range of severe but plausible scenarios.

44.   The testing program must be tailored to the material risks of the APRA-
      regulated entity and include a range of severe but plausible scenarios, including
      disruptions to services provided by material service providers and scenarios
      where contingency arrangements are required. APRA may require the inclusion
      of an APRA-determined scenario in a business continuity exercise for an
      APRA-regulated entity, or a class of APRA-regulated entities.

45.   An APRA-regulated entity must update, as necessary, its BCP on an annual
      basis to reflect any changes in legal or organisational structure, business mix,
      strategy or risk profile or for shortcomings identified as a result of the review
      and testing of the BCP.

46.   An APRA-regulated entity’s internal audit function must periodically review the
      entity’s BCP and provide assurance to the Board that the BCP sets out a
      credible plan for how the entity would maintain its critical operations within
      tolerance levels through severe disruptions and that testing procedures are
      adequate and have been conducted satisfactorily.

Management of service provider arrangements
47.   An APRA-regulated entity must maintain a comprehensive service provider
      management policy. The policy must cover how the entity will identify material
      service providers and manage service provider arrangements, including the
      management of material risks associated with the arrangements.

48.   The policy must include:

      (a)   the entity’s approach to entering into, monitoring, substituting and exiting
            agreements with material service providers;

      (b)   the entity’s approach to managing the risks associated with material
            service providers; and

      (c)   the entity’s approach to managing the risks associated with any fourth
            parties that material service providers rely on to deliver a critical operation
            to the APRA-regulated entity.14

Material service providers
49.   An APRA-regulated entity must identify and maintain a register of its material
      service providers and manage the material risks associated with using these
      providers. Material service providers are those on which the entity relies to




14
      A fourth party is a party that a service provider relies on in delivering services to an APRA-
      regulated entity.



                                                                                   CPS 230 – 10
                           Authorised Version F2023L01242 registered 14/09/2023
                                                                                        July 2025


      undertake a critical operation or that expose it to material operational risk.15
      Material arrangements are those on which the entity relies to undertake a critical
      operation or that expose it to material operational risk.

50.   An APRA-regulated entity must, at a minimum, classify a provider of the
      following services as a material service provider, unless it can justify otherwise:

      (a)   for an ADI: credit assessment, funding and liquidity management and
            mortgage brokerage;

      (b)   for an insurer (general, life, private health): underwriting, claims
            management, insurance brokerage and reinsurance;

      (c)   for an RSE licensee: fund administration, custodial services, investment
            management and arrangements with promoters and financial planners; and

      (d)   for all APRA-regulated entities: risk management, core technology
            services and internal audit.

51.   An APRA-regulated entity must submit its register of material service providers
      to APRA on an annual basis.

52.   APRA may require an APRA-regulated entity, or a class of APRA-regulated
      entities, to classify a service provider, type of service provider or service
      provider arrangement as material.

Service provider agreements

53.   Before entering into or materially modifying a material arrangement, an APRA-
      regulated entity must:

      (a)   undertake appropriate due diligence, including an appropriate selection
            process and an assessment of the ability of the service provider to provide
            the service on an ongoing basis; and

      (b)   assess the financial and non-financial risks from reliance on the service
            provider, including risks associated with geographic location or
            concentration of the service provider(s) or parties the service provider
            relies on in providing the service.

54.   For all material arrangements, an APRA-regulated entity must maintain a
      formal legally binding agreement (formal agreement). The formal agreement
      must, at a minimum:

      (a)   specify the services covered by the agreement and associated service
            levels;


15
      A material service provider may be a third party, related party or connected entity. A service
      provider may be identified as material as a result of an individual arrangement or multiple
      arrangements with an APRA-regulated entity.



                                                                                   CPS 230 – 11
                           Authorised Version F2023L01242 registered 14/09/2023
                                                                                  July 2025


      (b)   set out the rights, responsibilities and expectations of each party to the
            agreement, including in relation to the ownership of assets, ownership and
            control of data, dispute resolution, audit access, liability and indemnity;

      (c)   include provisions to ensure the ability of the entity to meet its legal and
            compliance obligations;

      (d)   require notification by the service provider of its use of other material
            service providers that it materially relies upon in providing the service to
            the APRA-regulated entity through sub-contracting or other arrangements;

      (e)   require the liability for any failure on the part of any sub-contractor to be
            the responsibility of the service provider;

      (f)   include a force majeure provision indicating those parts of the contract
            that would continue in the case of a force majeure event; and

      (g)   termination provisions including, but not limited to, the right to terminate
            both the arrangement in its entirety or parts of the arrangement. For an
            RSE licensee, termination provisions must include the ability for the RSE
            licensee to terminate the arrangement where to continue the arrangement
            would be inconsistent with the RSE licensee’s duty to act in the best
            financial interests of beneficiaries (refer to subsection 52(2)(c) of the SIS
            Act).

55.   The formal agreement must also include provisions that:

      (a)   allow APRA access to documentation, data and any other information
            related to the provision of the service;

      (b)   allow APRA the right to conduct an on-site visit to the service provider;
            and

      (c)   ensure the service provider agrees not to impede APRA in fulfilling its
            duties as prudential regulator.

56.   For each material arrangement an APRA-regulated entity must:

      (a)   identify and manage risks that could affect the ability of the service
            provider to provide the service on an ongoing basis;

      (b)   identify and manage risks to the APRA-regulated entity that could result
            from the arrangement, such as step-in risk or contagion risk;

      (c)   ensure it can execute its BCP if needed; and

      (d)   ensure it can conduct an orderly exit from the arrangement if needed.

57.   APRA may require an APRA-regulated entity to review and make changes to a
      service provider arrangement where it identifies heightened prudential concerns.




                                                                               CPS 230 – 12
                        Authorised Version F2023L01242 registered 14/09/2023
                                                                                          July 2025


Monitoring, notifications and review

58.   An APRA-regulated entity must monitor and ensure that senior management
      receive reporting on material arrangements commensurate with the nature and
      usage of the service. This monitoring must include a regular assessment of:

      (a)    performance under the service agreement with reference to agreed service
             levels;

      (b)    the effectiveness of controls to manage the risks associated with the use of
             the service provider; and

      (c)    compliance of both parties with the service provider agreement.

59.   An APRA-regulated entity must notify APRA:

      (a)    as soon as possible and not more than 20 business days after entering into
             or materially changing an agreement for the provision of a service on
             which the entity relies to undertake a critical operation; and

      (b)    prior to entering into any material offshoring arrangement,16 or when there
             is a significant change proposed to the arrangement, including in
             circumstances where data or personnel relevant to the service being
             provided will be located offshore.

60.   An APRA-regulated entity’s internal audit function must review any proposed
      material arrangement involving the outsourcing of a critical operation. The
      internal audit function must regularly report to the Board or Board Audit
      Committee on compliance of such arrangements with the entity’s service
      provider management policy.




16
      Material offshoring arrangement means a material arrangement where the service provided is
      undertaken outside Australia. Offshoring includes arrangements where the service provider is
      incorporated in Australia, but the physical location of the service being provided is undertaken
      outside Australia. Offshoring does not include arrangements where the physical location of a
      service is performed within Australia, but the service provider is not incorporated in Australia.



                                                                                      CPS 230 – 13
                            Authorised Version F2023L01242 registered 14/09/2023
