SOURCE: https://www.legislation.gov.au/F2024L00637/asmade/2024-06-06/text/original/pdf
FINAL URL: https://www.legislation.gov.au/F2024L00637/asmade/2024-06-06/text/original/pdf
FETCHED: 2026-10-09

Superannuation (prudential standard)
determination No. 3 of 2024
Prudential Standard SPS 510 Governance

Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993


I, Clare Gibney, a delegate of APRA:

(a)   under subsection 34C(6) of the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993
      REVOKE Superannuation (prudential standard) determination No. 2 of 2023,
      including Prudential Standard SPS 510 Governance made under that
      determination; and

(b)   under subsection 34C(1) of the Act, DETERMINE Prudential Standard SPS
      510 Governance in the form set out in the Schedule, which applies to all RSE
      licensees.

This instrument commences on 30 June 2024.



Dated: 3 June 2024



Clare Gibney
Executive Director
Policy and Advice Division



Interpretation
In this instrument:
APRA means the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority.
RSE licensee has the meaning given in section 10(1) of the Act.




                        Authorised Version F2024L00637 registered 06/06/2024
                                                                               June 2024




Prudential Standard SPS 510 Governance
Objectives and key requirements of this Prudential
Standard

This Prudential Standard sets out minimum foundations for good governance of an
RSE licensee. Its objective is to ensure that an RSE licensee’s business operations
are managed soundly and prudently by a competent Board, which can make
reasonable and impartial business judgements in the best financial interests of
beneficiaries and which duly considers the impact of its decisions on beneficiaries.
The ultimate responsibility for the sound and prudent management of an RSE
licensee’s business operations rests with its Board of directors.
It is essential that an RSE licensee has a sound governance framework and conducts
its affairs with a high degree of integrity. A culture that promotes good governance
benefits all stakeholders of an RSE licensee and helps to maintain public confidence
in the entity.
The governance of an RSE licensee builds on these foundations in ways that take
account of the size, business mix and complexity of the RSE licensee’s business
operations.
The key requirements of this Prudential Standard are that:

•    the Board must have a governance framework which includes, at a minimum,
     the Board’s charter (or equivalent document) and policies and processes that
     achieve appropriate skills, structure and composition of the Board;

•    the Board must have a written policy which sets out requirements relating to
     the nomination, appointment and removal of directors that support appropriate
     Board composition and renewal on an ongoing basis;

•    a Board Audit Committee must be established; and

•    an RSE licensee must have a dedicated internal audit function.




                                                                              SPS 510 - 1

                       Authorised Version F2024L00637 registered 06/06/2024
                                                                                               June 2024


Authority

1.    This Prudential Standard is made under section 34C of the Superannuation
      Industry (Supervision) Act 1993 (SIS Act).

Application

2.    This Prudential Standard applies to all registrable superannuation entity (RSE)
      licensees (RSE licensees) under the SIS Act.1

3.    All RSE licensees must comply with this Prudential Standard in its entirety,
      unless otherwise expressly indicated.

4.    For the purposes of this Prudential Standard, a reference to the ‘Board’ is to be
      read as a reference to the Board of directors or group of individual trustees of an
      RSE licensee.2

5.    For the purposes of this Prudential Standard, references to an RSE auditor or an
      RSE actuary are taken to be references to an RSE auditor or an RSE actuary that
      an RSE licensee must appoint under RSE licensee law.3

6.    This Prudential Standard sets out the minimum requirements that an RSE licensee
      must meet in the interests of promoting strong and effective governance.

7.    This Prudential Standard commences on 30 June 2024.

The role of the Board and senior management

8.    The Board is ultimately responsible for the sound and prudent management of an
      RSE licensee’s business operations.4

9.    The Board, in fulfilling its functions, may delegate authority to management to
      act on behalf of the Board with respect to certain matters, as decided by the Board.
      This delegation of authority must be clearly set out and documented. The Board
      must have mechanisms in place for monitoring the exercise of delegated
      authority. The Board cannot abrogate its responsibility for functions delegated to
      management.

10.   The Board must ensure that the directors and the senior management of the RSE
      licensee, collectively, have the full range of skills needed for the effective and
      prudent operation of the RSE licensee’s business operations, and that each

1     For the purposes of this Prudential Standard, ‘RSE licensee’ has the meaning given in section
      10(1) of the SIS Act.
2     For the purposes of this Prudential Standard, a reference to ‘a director’ is a reference to a director
      of an RSE licensee which has a Board of directors or, in the case of a group of individual trustees,
      an individual trustee and ‘group of individual trustees’ has the meaning given in section 10(1) of
      the SIS Act.
3     For the purposes of this Prudential Standard, ‘RSE auditor’, ‘RSE actuary’ and ‘RSE licensee
      law’ have the meaning given in section 10(1) of the SIS Act.
4     For the purposes of this Prudential Standard, an ‘RSE licensee’s business operations’ includes all
      activities as an RSE licensee (including the activities of each RSE of which it is the licensee), and
      all other activities of the RSE licensee to the extent that they are relevant to, or may impact on, its
      activities as an RSE licensee.


                                                                                             SPS 510 - 2

                             Authorised Version F2024L00637 registered 06/06/2024
                                                                                          June 2024


      director has skills that allow them to make an effective contribution to Board
      deliberations and processes. This includes the requirement for directors,
      collectively, to have the necessary skills, knowledge and experience to understand
      the risks of the RSE licensee’s business operations, including its legal and
      prudential obligations, and to ensure that the RSE licensee’s business operations
      are managed in an appropriate way taking into account these risks. This does not
      preclude the Board from supplementing its skills and knowledge by engaging
      external consultants and experts.

11.   Where the Board establishes a board committee that has responsibility for
      activities that have the potential to have a material impact on the interests, or
      reasonable expectations, of beneficiaries5, or to the long term financial soundness
      of the RSE licensee, any of its RSEs or connected entities6, an RSE licensee must
      ensure that only a director of the RSE licensee holds the position of chairperson
      on that board committee.

12.   Senior management of an RSE licensee must be ordinarily resident in Australia.

13.   Directors and senior management of an RSE licensee must be available to meet
      with APRA on request.

14.   The Board must provide the RSE auditor and the RSE actuary, as relevant, with
      the opportunity to raise matters directly with the Board.

RSE licensees that are part of a corporate group7

15.   Where an RSE licensee is part of a corporate group, and the RSE licensee utilises
      group policies or functions, the Board must approve the use of group policies and
      functions and must ensure that these policies and functions give appropriate
      regard to the RSE licensee’s business operations and its specific requirements.

Governance framework

16.   An RSE licensee must at all times have a governance framework that sets out how
      the Board oversees and exercises its authority in relation to the business
      operations of the RSE licensee and which encompasses the totality of systems,
      structures, policies, processes and people within an RSE licensee’s business
      operations.8

17.   The Board is ultimately responsible for the establishment, implementation and
      oversight of the governance framework.

18.   An RSE licensee’s governance framework must, at a minimum, include:


5     For the purposes of this Prudential Standard, a reference to ‘beneficiaries’ is a reference to
      ‘beneficiaries of an RSE within the RSE licensee’s business operations’.
6     For the purposes of this Prudential Standard, a reference to a ‘connected entity’ has the meaning
      given in subsection 10(1) of the SIS Act.
7     For the purposes of this Prudential Standard, a reference to ‘a group’ is a reference to a group
      comprising the RSE licensee and all connected entities of the RSE licensee.
8     Refer also to Prudential Standard SPS 220 Risk Management (SPS 220) for requirements relating
      to the management of governance risk.


                                                                                        SPS 510 - 3

                            Authorised Version F2024L00637 registered 06/06/2024
                                                                                               June 2024


      (a)    a formal charter that sets out the roles, responsibilities and objectives of
             the Board;

      (b)    the Board’s policy in relation to voting rights and procedures for the
             decisions of the Board;

      (c)    the Board’s policies on:

             (i)     the size and composition of the Board and any Board committees9;

             (ii)    Board renewal;

             (iii) the nomination, appointment and removal of directors, including
                   defined director terms in office and maximum tenure periods10;

      (d)    the RSE licensee’s policies and processes:

             (i)     to manage risks relating to fitness and propriety of responsible
                     persons11; and

             (ii)    relating to the management of conflicts12; and

      (e)    a review process to ensure that the governance framework remains
             effective.

Board composition

19.   The chairperson of the Board must be a director of the RSE licensee.

20.   A majority of directors of an RSE licensee must be ordinarily resident in
      Australia.

Board performance assessment

21.   The Board must have procedures for assessing, at least annually, the Board’s
      performance relative to its objectives. It must also have in place a procedure for
      assessing, at least annually, the performance of individual directors.

Board renewal

22.   The Board must have in place a formal policy on Board renewal. This policy must
      provide details of how the Board intends to renew itself in order to ensure it


9     For the purposes of this Prudential Standard, a reference to ‘board committees’ is a reference to
      the Board Audit Committee, the Board Remuneration Committee required under CPS 511 and
      any other committees which meet the description set out in paragraph 11 of this Prudential
      Standard.
10    For the purpose of this Prudential Standard, a reference to ‘tenure’ is a reference to the total length
      of service of an individual director on the Board (including non-continuous service).
11    Refer to Prudential Standard SPS 520 Fit and Proper (SPS 520) for requirements relating to the
      fitness and propriety of responsible persons.
12    Refer to Prudential Standard SPS 521 Conflicts of Interest (SPS 521) for requirements relating to
      the management of conflicts.


                                                                                             SPS 510 - 4

                             Authorised Version F2024L00637 registered 06/06/2024
                                                                                June 2024


      remains open to new ideas and independent thinking, while retaining adequate
      expertise.

Board nomination, appointment and removal

23.   The Board must establish and implement policies and processes for the
      nomination, appointment and removal of directors. These policies and processes
      must, at a minimum, address:

      (a)   the length of the term for which a director is appointed to the Board;

      (b)   the maximum tenure limit for an individual director;

      (c)   how vacancies will be managed, including, where applicable, how the
            RSE licensee will comply with the vacancy requirements in Part 9 of the
            SIS Act;

      (d)   the process by which a candidate will be nominated for a vacant Board
            position;

      (e)   the factors that will be considered when assessing the suitability of a
            nominated candidate, including how the RSE licensee assesses the
            independence of the candidate where relevant and the Board’s process for
            determining whether a particular candidate is appointed;

      (f)   the process by which a director will be appointed to the Board;

      (g)   the factors that will determine when an existing director will be re-
            appointed, including whether the director has served on the Board for a
            period that could, or could reasonably be perceived to, materially interfere
            with their ability to act in the best interests of beneficiaries;

      (h)   the process by which the Board will resolve disputes about nominations,
            appointment, re-appointment or removal of directors;

      (i)   when and how a director will be removed from the Board; and

      (j)   the Board’s policy on voting rights and procedures in relation to
            nomination, appointment, reappointment and removal of a director.

Board Audit Committee

24.   An RSE licensee must have a Board Audit Committee, which assists the Board
      by providing an objective non-executive review of the effectiveness of the RSE
      licensee’s financial reporting and risk management framework unless, with
      respect to risk management, there is another Board Committee which carries out
      this function.

25.   The Board Audit Committee must have sufficient powers to enable it to obtain all
      information necessary for the performance of its functions.




                                                                               SPS 510 - 5

                        Authorised Version F2024L00637 registered 06/06/2024
                                                                                             June 2024


26.   The Board Audit Committee must have at least three members. All members of
      the Committee must be non-executive directors.13

27.   The chairperson of the Board may sit on the Board Audit Committee, but may not
      chair the Committee except where the chairperson of the Board is the only
      independent director (within the definition of section 10 of the SIS Act) on the
      Board.

28.   The Board Audit Committee must have a charter that includes a reference to the
      fact that the Committee is responsible for the oversight of:

      (a)    all APRA statutory reporting requirements;

      (b)    other financial reporting requirements;

      (c)    professional accounting requirements;

      (d)    internal and external audit; and

      (e)    the appointment of both the RSE auditor and internal audit function.

29.   The Board Audit Committee must review the engagement of the RSE auditor at
      least annually, including making an assessment of whether the RSE auditor meets
      the Audit Independence tests set out in APES 110 Code of Ethics for Professional
      Accountants14, as well as the additional auditor independence requirements set
      out in the Corporations Act 2001 (Corporations Act) (if applicable) and in this
      Prudential Standard.

30.   The Board Audit Committee must regularly review the internal and external audit
      plans, ensuring that they cover all material risks and financial reporting
      requirements of the RSE licensee. It must also regularly review the findings of
      audits, and ensure that issues are being managed and rectified in an appropriate
      and timely manner.

31.   The Board Audit Committee must ensure the adequacy and independence of both
      the internal and external audit functions.

32.   The members of the Board Audit Committee must, at all times, have free and
      unfettered access to senior management, the internal audit function, the heads of
      all risk management functions, the RSE auditor and the RSE actuary, as
      applicable, and vice versa.

33.   The Board Audit Committee must establish and maintain policies and procedures
      for employees of the RSE licensee to submit, confidentially, information about
      accounting, internal control, compliance, audit, and other matters about which the


13    For the purpose of this Prudential Standard, a reference to ‘a non-executive director’ is a reference
      to a director who is not a member of the RSE licensee’s management. Non-executive directors
      may include Board members or senior managers of the parent company of the RSE licensee or of
      the parent company’s subsidiaries, but not executives of the RSE licensee.
14    APES 110 Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants was issued by the Accounting Professional
      and Ethical Standards Board in November 2018.


                                                                                           SPS 510 - 6

                             Authorised Version F2024L00637 registered 06/06/2024
                                                                                           June 2024


      employee has concerns. The Committee must also have a process for ensuring
      employees are aware of these policies and for dealing with matters raised by
      employees under these policies.

34.   Members of the Board Audit Committee must be available to meet with APRA
      on request.

35.   The Board Audit Committee must invite the individual RSE auditor or lead
      auditor and the RSE actuary, as applicable, to meetings of the Committee.15

36.   The internal auditor must have a reporting line, and unfettered access, to the
      Board Audit Committee.

Internal audit

37.   An RSE licensee must have an independent and adequately resourced internal
      audit function. An RSE licensee may outsource this function where the
      outsourcing agreement meets the requirements of Prudential Standard SPS 231
      Outsourcing. If an RSE licensee does not believe it is necessary to have a
      dedicated internal audit function, it must apply to APRA to seek an exemption
      from this requirement, setting out reasons why it believes it should be exempt.
      APRA may approve alternative arrangements in writing for an RSE licensee
      where APRA is satisfied that they will achieve the same objectives.

38.   The objectives of the internal audit function must include evaluation of the
      adequacy and effectiveness of the financial and risk management framework of
      the RSE licensee.16 To fulfil its functions, the internal auditor must, at all times,
      have unfettered access to all the RSE licensee’s business lines and support
      functions.

Auditor independence

39.   The Corporations Act contains a number of requirements in relation to auditor
      independence.17 The auditor independence requirements in this Prudential
      Standard are substantially consistent with those requirements, and are intended to
      help ensure the independence of an RSE auditor engaged to perform work of a
      prudential nature in relation to RSE licensee law.

40.   The Board must, to the extent practical, undertake steps to satisfy itself that the
      RSE auditor is independent of the RSE licensee and the RSE, and that there is no
      conflict of interest situation that could compromise, or be seen to compromise,
      the independence of the RSE auditor.18




15    ‘Individual RSE auditor’ has the meaning given by section 10(1) of the SIS Act. ‘Lead auditor’
      has the meaning given by section 11F of the SIS Act.
16    Refer to SPS 220 for the requirement to review the risk management framework.
17    Refer to Part 2M.4 of the Corporations Act.
18    Independent of the RSE licensee means that the auditor has been assessed as independent in terms
      of paragraph 29 of this Prudential Standard. Refer to SPS 521 for requirements to identify relevant
      interests and relevant duties for all responsible persons.


                                                                                          SPS 510 - 7

                            Authorised Version F2024L00637 registered 06/06/2024
                                                                                           June 2024


41.   As part of the process of ascertaining the independence of the RSE auditor, an
      RSE licensee must obtain a declaration from the individual RSE auditor or the
      lead auditor to the effect that:

      (a)    they are independent, both in appearance and in fact;

      (b)    they have no conflict of interest situation; and

      (c)    there is nothing to their knowledge (including in relation to any audit firm
             or audit company of which the auditor is a member or director) that could
             compromise that independence.

42.   For the purposes of this Prudential Standard, a conflict of interest situation exists
      in relation to an RSE licensee at a particular time if, because of circumstances
      that exist at that time:

      (a)    the individual RSE auditor or lead auditor is not capable of exercising
             objective and impartial judgement in relation to the conduct of the work
             that is undertaken for the RSE licensee in relation to RSE licensee law; or

      (b)    a reasonable person, with full knowledge of all relevant facts and
             circumstances, would conclude that the individual RSE auditor or lead
             auditor is not capable of exercising objective and impartial judgement in
             relation to undertaking the work for the RSE licensee for the purposes of
             RSE licensee law.19

43.   A person, who was a member of an audit firm or a director of an audit company
      or an individual auditor, and who served in a professional capacity in the audit of
      an RSE licensee in relation to RSE licensee law, cannot be appointed to the role
      of director or senior manager of that RSE licensee until at least two years have
      passed since they served in that professional capacity.

44.   A person, who was an employee of an audit company or audit firm, other than a
      director of that company or member of that firm, and who acted as the lead auditor
      or review auditor20 in the audit of an RSE licensee’s business operations in
      relation to RSE licensee law, cannot be appointed to the role of director or senior
      manager of that RSE licensee until at least two years have passed since they acted
      as the lead auditor or review auditor.

45.   A person cannot be appointed as a director or senior manager of an RSE licensee
      if:




19    Refer to sections 324CA - 324CD of the Corporations Act that describes the circumstances under
      which a conflict of interest situation is considered to exist. Without limiting the situations that
      may cause a conflict to arise for the purposes of this Prudential Standard, it is expected that any
      circumstances of the type that would lead to a breach of Division 3 of Part 2M.4 of the
      Corporations Act will also result in a breach of the provisions of this Prudential Standard.
20    ‘Review auditor’ means the registered company auditor (if any) who is primarily responsible to
      the individual auditor, audit firm or audit company for reviewing audit work conducted in relation
      to RSE licensee law.


                                                                                          SPS 510 - 8

                            Authorised Version F2024L00637 registered 06/06/2024
                                                                                            June 2024


      (a)    the person was, or is, a director of the audit company or a member of the
             audit firm that was, or is, responsible for the audit of the RSE licensee in
             relation to RSE licensee law; and

      (b)    there is already another person appointed or employed as a director or
             senior manager of the RSE licensee who was a director of the audit
             company or a member of the audit firm, at a time when the audit company
             or audit firm undertook an audit of the RSE licensee at any time during
             the previous two years.

46.   Until 1 July 2028, an individual who plays a significant role21 in the audit of an
      RSE in relation to RSE licensee law, for five successive years, or for more than
      five years out of seven successive years, cannot continue to play a significant role
      in the audit until at least a further two years have passed, except with an
      exemption in writing from APRA. APRA may grant an exemption from this
      requirement if the individual provides specialist services that are otherwise not
      readily available or there are no other registered company auditors available to
      provide satisfactory services for the RSE licensee.22

47.   For the purposes of maintaining their independence and objectivity, the RSE
      auditor and RSE actuary cannot both be employed by the same body corporate or
      related bodies corporate, or by the same firm or related firms.

Persons not to be constrained from providing information to APRA23

48.   No prospective, current, or former officer, employee or contractor (including
      professional service provider) of an RSE licensee may be constrained or impeded,
      whether by confidentiality clauses or other means, from disclosing information to
      APRA, from discussing issues with APRA of relevance to the management and
      prudential supervision of the RSE licensee, or from providing documents under
      their control to APRA, that may be relevant in the context of the management or
      prudential supervision of the RSE licensee. Such persons are not to be constrained
      or impeded from providing information to, as applicable, auditors, actuaries and
      others, who have statutory responsibilities in relation to the RSE licensee.

49.   An RSE licensee must ensure that its internal policy and contractual arrangements
      do not explicitly or implicitly restrict or discourage auditors or other parties from
      communicating with APRA.

Adjustments and exclusions

50.   APRA may adjust or exclude a specific requirement in this Prudential Standard
      in relation to:

21    For the purpose of this paragraph, an individual ‘plays a significant role’ if (a) the person is
      appointed as an individual RSE auditor and acts as the auditor in respect of any of the requirements
      of RSE licensee law; or (b) an audit company or audit firm is appointed as RSE auditor and the
      person acts, on behalf of the company or firm, as a lead auditor, or a review auditor, in respect of
      any of the requirements of RSE licensee law.
22    From 1 July 2028, the limited term for eligibility to play a significant role in the audit of an RSE
      will be assessed solely in accordance with section 324DA of the Corporations Act.
23    Refer also to the whistleblowing provisions in SPS 520.


                                                                                           SPS 510 - 9

                            Authorised Version F2024L00637 registered 06/06/2024
                                                                                     June 2024


      (a)    a particular RSE licensee of an RSE; or

      (b)    specified RSE licensees of RSEs.24

Previous exercise of discretion

51.   An RSE licensee must contact APRA if it seeks to place reliance, for the purposes
      of complying with this Prudential Standard, on an exercise of discretion by APRA
      made under a previous version of this Prudential Standard.




24    Refer to section 34C(5) of the SIS Act.


                                                                                   SPS 510 - 10

                            Authorised Version F2024L00637 registered 06/06/2024
