SOURCE: https://www.legislation.gov.au/F2019L01578/asmade/2019-12-05/text/original/pdf
FINAL URL: https://www.legislation.gov.au/F2019L01578/asmade/2019-12-05/text/original/pdf
FETCHED: 2026-10-09

                                                                                January 2020




Superannuation (prudential standard)
determination No. 3 of 2019

Prudential Standard SPS 220 Risk Management

Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993


I, Heidi Richards, delegate of APRA:

(a)    under subsection 34C(6) of the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act
       1993 (the Act) REVOKE Superannuation (prudential standard) determination
       No. 2 of 2012, including Prudential Standard SPS 220 Risk Management
       made under that Determination; and
(b)    under subsection 34C(1) of the Act DETERMINE Prudential Standard SPS
       220 Risk Management, in the form set out in the Schedule, which applies to all
       RSE licensees.

This instrument commences on 1 January 2020.

Dated: 04 December 2019

[Signed]

Heidi Richards
Executive General Manager
Policy and Advice Division




Interpretation
In this Determination:

APRA means the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority.

RSE licensee has the meaning given in section 10(1) of the Act.



                                                                                SPS 220 - 1
                         Authorised Version F2019L01578 registered 05/12/2019
                                                                            January 2020


Schedule
Prudential Standard SPS 220 Risk Management comprises the document commencing
on the following page.




                                                                            SPS 220 - 2
                     Authorised Version F2019L01578 registered 05/12/2019
                                                                               January 2020




Prudential Standard SPS 220

Risk Management
Objectives and key requirements of this Prudential
Standard

This Prudential Standard establishes requirements for an RSE licensee to have
systems for identifying, assessing, managing, mitigating and monitoring material risks
that may affect its ability to meet its obligations to beneficiaries. These systems,
together with the structures, policies, processes and people supporting them, comprise
an RSE licensee’s risk management framework.

The Board of an RSE licensee is ultimately responsible for having a risk management
framework that is appropriate to the size, business mix and complexity of the RSE
licensee’s business operations and that enables the RSE licensee to implement risk
management approaches that appropriately manage different types of risk. The risk
management framework must also be aligned with the RSE licensee’s business plan.

The key requirements of this Prudential Standard are that an RSE licensee must:

    maintain a risk management framework that is appropriate to the size, business
     mix and complexity of its business operations;

    maintain a Board-approved risk appetite statement;

    maintain a Board-approved risk management strategy that describes the key
     elements of the risk management framework that give effect to the approach to
     managing risk;

    maintain adequate resources to ensure compliance with this Prudential Standard;
     and

    notify APRA when the RSE licensee becomes aware of a significant breach of,
     or material deviation from, the risk management framework, or discovers that
     the risk management framework does not adequately address a material risk.




                                                                               SPS 220 - 3
                        Authorised Version F2019L01578 registered 05/12/2019
                                                                                         January 2020


Authority

1.   This Prudential Standard is made under section 34C of the Superannuation
     Industry (Supervision) Act 1993 (SIS Act).

Application

2.   This Prudential Standard applies to all registrable superannuation entity (RSE)
     licensees (RSE licensees) under the SIS Act.1

3.   All RSE licensees must comply with this Prudential Standard in its entirety,
     unless otherwise expressly indicated.

4.   This Prudential Standard commences on 1 January 2020.

The role of the Board and senior management

5.   An RSE licensee must at all times have a risk management framework to
     appropriately manage the risks to its business operations.2

6.   For the purposes of this Prudential Standard, the risk management framework is
     the totality of systems, structures, policies, processes and people within an RSE
     licensee’s business operations that identify, assess, manage, mitigate and
     monitor all internal and external sources of inherent risk that could have a
     material impact on the RSE licensee’s business operations or the interests of
     beneficiaries (material risks).3

7.   The Board of the RSE licensee (the Board) is ultimately responsible for the risk
     management framework.4

8.   The Board is ultimately responsible for maintaining the solvency of the RSE
     licensee and ensuring that the RSE licensee’s business operations have adequate
     resources to undertake the activities for which it holds an RSE licence.




1
     For the purposes of this Prudential Standard, ‘RSE licensee’ has the meaning given in section
     10(1) of the SIS Act.
2
     For the purposes of this Prudential Standard, an ‘RSE licensee’s business operations’ includes
     all activities as an RSE licensee (including the activities of each RSE of which it is the licensee),
     and all other activities of the RSE licensee to the extent that they are relevant to, or may impact
     on, its activities as an RSE licensee. The risk management framework must also cover risks that
     arise from functions that are outsourced; refer to Prudential Standard SPS 231 Outsourcing
     (SPS 231).
3
     For the purposes of this Prudential Standard, a reference to ‘beneficiaries’ is a reference to
     ‘beneficiaries of an RSE within the RSE licensee’s business operations’.
4
     For the purposes of this Prudential Standard, a reference to ‘the Board’ is a reference to the
     Board of directors or group of individual trustees of an RSE licensee and ‘group of individual
     trustees’ has the meaning given in section 10(1) of the SIS Act.


                                                                                           SPS 220 - 4
                            Authorised Version F2019L01578 registered 05/12/2019
                                                                                          January 2020


RSE licensees that are part of a group5

9.    Where an RSE licensee is part of a corporate group, and the RSE licensee
      utilises group policies or functions, the Board must approve the use of group
      policies and functions and must ensure that these policies and functions give
      appropriate regard to the RSE licensee’s business operations and its specific
      requirements.

Material risks

10.   An RSE licensee must, at a minimum, ensure that its risk management
      framework covers all material risks, both financial and non-financial, to the
      RSE licensee’s business operations, having regard to the size, business mix and
      complexity of those operations.

11.   An RSE licensee must assess the materiality of each risk with reference to its
      business operations as a whole, each RSE within those operations and the
      impact of the risk on the obligations of the RSE licensee to its beneficiaries.

12.   An RSE licensee’s risk management framework must, at a minimum, cover:

      (a)    governance risk6;

      (b)    investment governance risk7;

      (c)    liquidity risk, including the liquidity characteristics of investment options
             offered or proposed to be offered8;

      (d)    operational risk9;

      (e)    insurance risk10;

      (f)    strategic and tactical risks that arise out of the RSE licensee’s strategic
             and business plans; and

      (g)    other risks that may have a material impact on the RSE licensee’s business
             operations.

13.   Where an RSE licensee conducts business that has a purpose other than
      superannuation11, its risk management framework must cover all material

5
      For the purposes of this Prudential Standard, a reference to ‘a group’ is a reference to a group
      comprising the RSE licensee and all connected entities and all related bodies corporate of the
      RSE licensee, ‘connected entity’ has the meaning given in section 10(1) of the SIS Act and
      ‘related body corporate’ has the meaning given in section 50 of the Corporations Act 2001.
6
      Refer to Prudential Standard SPS 510 Governance (SPS 510), Prudential Standard SPS 520 Fit
      and Proper and Prudential Standard SPS 521 Conflicts of Interest.
7
      Refer to Prudential Standard SPS 530 Investment Governance (SPS 530).
8
      Refer to SPS 530.
9
      Refer to Prudential Standard SPS 114 Operational Risk Financial Requirement (SPS 114), SPS
      231 and Prudential Standard SPS 232 Business Continuity Management (SPS 232).
10
      Refer to Prudential Standard SPS 250 Insurance in Superannuation.
11
      Refer to section 62 of the SIS Act for details of the sole purpose test to identify business that has
      a purpose other than superannuation.


                                                                                            SPS 220 - 5
                             Authorised Version F2019L01578 registered 05/12/2019
                                                                                January 2020


      contagion risks that any non-superannuation business conducted by the RSE
      licensee might have on the superannuation business.

Risk management framework

14.   An RSE licensee’s risk management framework must enable the RSE licensee
      to develop and implement strategies, policies, procedures and controls to
      appropriately manage different types of material risk.

15.   An RSE licensee’s risk management framework must provide reasonable
      assurance that each material risk to the RSE licensee’s business operations is
      being prudently and soundly managed, having regard to the size, business mix
      and complexity of those operations.

16.   An RSE licensee’s risk management framework must, at a minimum, include:

      (a)   the risk appetite statement;

      (b)   the risk management strategy (RMS);

      (c)   a designated risk management function that meets the requirements of
            paragraph 24;

      (d)   all risk management policies, procedures and controls to identify, assess,
            monitor, report on, mitigate and manage each material risk;

      (e)   clearly defined and documented roles, responsibilities and formal
            reporting structures for the management of material risks throughout the
            RSE licensee’s business operations;

      (f)   a management information system(s) (MIS) that is adequate, both under
            normal circumstances and in periods of stress, for measuring, assessing
            and reporting on all material risks across the RSE licensee’s business
            operations; and

      (g)   a review process to ensure that the risk management framework remains
            effective.

17.   Where an RSE licensee is part of a corporate group and any element of the RSE
      licensee’s risk management framework is controlled or influenced by, or is
      subject to approval by another entity in the group, the RSE licensee’s risk
      management framework must specifically take into account risks arising from
      group policy objectives and strategies, and clearly identify:

      (a)   whether the RSE licensee’s risk management framework is derived wholly
            or partially from group risk management policies or functions;

      (b)   the linkages and significant differences between the RSE licensee’s risk
            management framework and group risk management policies or functions;
            and




                                                                                SPS 220 - 6
                         Authorised Version F2019L01578 registered 05/12/2019
                                                                                 January 2020


      (c)   the process for monitoring by, or reporting to, the group on risk
            management including the key procedures, the frequency of reporting and
            the approach to reviews.

Strategic and business planning12

18.   An RSE licensee must identify and consider the material risks associated with
      the RSE licensee’s strategic objectives and business plan, and must explicitly
      manage these risks through the risk management framework, including how
      changing these plans affects the risk profile of the RSE licensee’s business
      operations.

Risk appetite statement

19.   An RSE licensee must maintain an up-to-date risk appetite statement that covers
      the RSE licensee’s business operations and each category of material risk. The
      risk appetite statement must be approved by the Board.

20.   An RSE licensee’s risk appetite statement must, at a minimum, articulate:

      (a)   the degree of risk that the RSE licensee is prepared to accept in pursuit of
            its strategic objectives and business plan, giving consideration to the
            interests of beneficiaries (risk appetite);

      (b)   for each material risk, the maximum level of risk that the RSE licensee is
            willing to operate within expressed as a risk limit that, where possible, is
            based on a measurable limit of the risk remaining, after taking into
            account the mitigants for the risk where appropriate (risk tolerance);

      (c)   the process for ensuring that risk tolerances are set at an appropriate level,
            based on an estimation of the impact on the interests of beneficiaries in the
            event that a risk tolerance is breached and the likelihood that each material
            risk is realised;

      (d)   the process for monitoring compliance with each risk tolerance and taking
            appropriate action in the event of a breach of the RSE licensee’s risk
            tolerance; and

      (e)   the timing and process for review of the risk appetite and risk tolerances.

Risk management strategy

21.   An RSE licensee must maintain an up–to-date RMS for its business operations
      that covers each material risk identified under paragraphs 10 to 13 inclusive.
      The RMS must be approved by the Board.

22.   An RMS is a strategic document that describes the RSE licensee’s strategy for
      managing risk and the key elements of the risk management framework that


12
      Refer to Prudential Standard SPS 515 Strategic Planning and Member Outcomes (SPS 515) for
      core requirements relating to strategic and business planning.


                                                                                  SPS 220 - 7
                          Authorised Version F2019L01578 registered 05/12/2019
                                                                                    January 2020


      give effect to this strategy. At a minimum, an RSE licensee’s RMS must
      describe:

      (a)   each material risk identified under paragraphs 10 to 13 inclusive and the
            RSE licensee’s approach to managing these risks;

      (b)   the policies and procedures dealing with the following risk management
            matters, including the date when each policy or procedure was last
            revised, the date that it is next due for review and who is responsible for
            the review:

            (i)    the processes for identifying and assessing material risks and
                   controls;

            (ii)   the process for establishing, implementing and testing mitigation
                   strategies and control mechanisms for material risks;

            (iii) the process for monitoring, communicating and reporting risk
                  issues, including escalation procedures for the reporting of material
                  events and incidents;

            (iv) the mechanisms in place for monitoring and ensuring ongoing
                 compliance with all prudential requirements13; and

            (v)    the process for ensuring continued alignment between the risk
                   management framework and the business plan;

      (c)   the role and responsibilities of the risk management function;

      (d)   the relationships between the Board, board committees and senior
            management with respect to the risk management framework;

      (e)   those with managerial responsibility for the risk management framework,
            and their roles and responsibilities;

      (f)   the approach to ensuring all persons within the RSE licensee’s business
            operations have awareness of the risk management framework and for
            instilling an appropriate risk culture across the RSE licensee’s business
            operations; and

      (g)   the process by which the risk management framework is reviewed and the
            intended coverage and timing for these reviews.

23.   APRA may require an RSE licensee to amend its RMS or develop and maintain
      a separate RMS with respect to one or more RSEs within its business operations



13
      ‘Prudential requirements’ include requirements under the SIS Act, the Superannuation Industry
      (Supervision) Regulations 1994, the prudential standards, reporting standards, the Financial
      Sector (Collection of Data) Act 2001 (FSCOD Act), licence conditions, authorisations,
      superannuation data and payment standards, directions and any other requirements imposed by
      APRA under legislation.


                                                                                     SPS 220 - 8
                           Authorised Version F2019L01578 registered 05/12/2019
                                                                                     January 2020


      where APRA considers that the RSE licensee’s RMS does not adequately cover
      the risks to that RSE.14

Risk management function

24.   An RSE licensee must have a designated risk management function that, at a
      minimum:

      (a)   is responsible for assisting the Board, board committees and senior
            management to develop and maintain the risk management framework;

      (b)   is appropriate to the size, business mix and complexity of the RSE
            licensee’s business operations and is operationally independent from the
            business units of the RSE licensee;

      (c)   is resourced with staff who have clearly defined roles and responsibilities
            and who possess appropriate experience and qualifications to exercise
            those responsibilities;

      (d)   has access to all aspects of the RSE licensee’s business operations that
            have the potential to generate material risk, including information
            technology systems and systems development resources;

      (e)   has the necessary authority and reporting structure to the Board, board
            committees and senior management to conduct its risk management
            activities in an effective and independent manner; and

      (f)   is required to notify the Board of any material deviation from, or material
            breach of, the risk management framework.

25.   An RSE licensee that is part of a corporate group may rely on a risk
      management function located in another entity in the group where the risk
      management function satisfies the criteria set out in paragraph 24 in respect of
      the RSE licensee’s business operations.

26.   An RSE licensee may engage the services of an external service provider to
      perform all or part of the risk management function where the RSE licensee can
      demonstrate to APRA that the external risk management function meets the
      requirements in paragraph 24.15

Review of the risk management framework

27.   An RSE licensee must ensure that the appropriateness, effectiveness and
      adequacy of its risk management framework are subject to a comprehensive
      review by operationally independent, appropriately trained and competent
      persons at least every three years.

14
      Where this Prudential Standard provides for APRA to require an RSE licensee to amend its
      RMS, or otherwise exercise a power or discretion, the power or discretion is to be exercised in
      writing.
15
      Outsourcing of the risk management function by an RSE licensee must also meet the
      requirements in SPS 231.


                                                                                       SPS 220 - 9
                           Authorised Version F2019L01578 registered 05/12/2019
                                                                                  January 2020


28.   An RSE licensee must also undertake, for each year during which a
      comprehensive review does not take place, a review of the appropriateness,
      effectiveness and adequacy of the risk management framework.

29.   The scope of the comprehensive review of an RSE licensee’s risk management
      framework must have regard to the size, business mix and complexity of the
      RSE licensee's business operations, the extent of any change to those operations
      or its risk appetite and any changes to the external environment in which the
      RSE licensee operates. The review of the risk management framework must, at
      a minimum, include a review of:

      (a)   whether the risk management framework remains appropriate for the RSE
            licensee’s business operations;

      (b)   the specific resources utilised, at a minimum, to undertake the risk
            management activities required by this Prudential Standard and whether
            these activities are supported by adequate resources;

      (c)   the risk appetite statement;

      (d)   the RMS, to ensure that it accurately documents the RSE licensee’s risk
            management framework and the RSE licensee’s strategy for managing
            risk;

      (e)   all risk management policies and procedures; and

      (f)   all risk management and internal control systems.

30.   An RSE licensee must implement satisfactory internal audit procedures and
      external audit arrangements to ensure compliance with the risk management
      framework and enable the RSE licensee to attest that the risk management and
      internal control systems in place are operating effectively and are adequate.16

31.   Where institutional, operational or other developments that materially affect the
      size, business mix and complexity of an RSE licensee’s business operations are
      identified outside the comprehensive review required in paragraph 27, the RSE
      licensee must assess whether any amendment to, or a review of, the risk
      management framework is necessary to take account of these developments.

Risk management declaration

32.   The Board must, on an annual basis, provide APRA with a declaration on risk
      management (risk management declaration) signed by two directors that
      satisfies the requirements set out in Attachment A of this Prudential Standard.

33.   An RSE licensee must submit the risk management declaration to APRA on, or
      before, the day that the RSE licensee is required to submit annual information
      under reporting standards made by APRA under the Financial Sector
      (Collection of Data) Act 2001.

16
      Refer to Prudential Standard SPS 310 Audit and Related Matters and SPS 510 for requirements
      relating to external audits and internal audits respectively.


                                                                                  SPS 220 - 10
                          Authorised Version F2019L01578 registered 05/12/2019
                                                                                  January 2020


34.   If the Board qualifies the risk management declaration, the qualified declaration
      must include a description of any material deviation from the RSE licensee’s
      risk management framework and the steps taken, or proposed to be taken, to
      remedy those deviations.

Notification requirements

35.   An RSE licensee must notify APRA within 10 business days when it:

      (a)   becomes aware of a significant breach of, or material deviation from, the
            risk management framework; or

      (b)   discovers that the risk management framework did not adequately address
            a material risk.

36.   An RSE licensee must notify APRA, as soon as practicable, when it becomes
      aware of any material changes to the size, business mix and complexity of the
      RSE licensee’s business operations.

Adjustments and exclusions

37.   APRA may, by notice in writing to an RSE licensee, adjust or exclude a specific
      prudential requirement in this Prudential Standard in relation to that RSE
      licensee.17




17
       Refer to section 34C(5) of the SIS Act.


                                                                                  SPS 220 - 11
                           Authorised Version F2019L01578 registered 05/12/2019
                                                                               January 2020


Attachment A

Risk management declaration

For the purposes of paragraph 32 of this Prudential Standard, an RSE licensee’s risk
management declaration must cover the following matters:

(a)   the RSE licensee has in place systems for ensuring compliance with all
      prudential requirements;

(b)   the systems and resources that are in place for managing and monitoring risks,
      and the risk management framework, are appropriate to the RSE licensee,
      having regard to the size, business mix and complexity of the RSE licensee’s
      business operations;

(c)   the RSE licensee has assessed the risks of outsourcing any business activity, and
      is satisfied that the risks and relevant controls relating to these risks are
      appropriate to the RSE licensee, having regard to the size, business mix and
      complexity of the RSE licensee’s business operations and the operational
      capabilities of the RSE licensee itself;

(d)   the risk management and internal control systems in place are operating
      effectively and are adequate having regard to the risks they are designed to
      control;

(e)   the RSE licensee has an RMS that complies with this Prudential Standard, and
      that the RSE licensee has complied with each measure and control described in
      the RMS;

(f)   the RSE licensee is satisfied with the efficacy of the processes and systems
      surrounding the production of financial information for each RSE within its
      business operations;

(g)   the RSE licensee has adequate reporting systems and internal controls
      supporting the preparation and reporting of accurate financial and statistical
      information to APRA; and

(h)   information provided to APRA accurately represents the transactions for the
      year and financial position at year end in accordance with the provisions of the
      SIS Act and FSCOD Act.




                                                                               SPS 220 - 12
                        Authorised Version F2019L01578 registered 05/12/2019
