SOURCE: https://www.legislation.gov.au/F2025L00653/asmade/2025-06-06/text/original/pdf
FINAL URL: https://www.legislation.gov.au/F2025L00653/asmade/2025-06-06/text/original/pdf
FETCHED: 2026-10-09

Banking (prudential standard) determination
No. 3 of 2025
Prudential Standard APS 210 Liquidity

Banking Act 1959
I, Sean Carmody, a delegate of APRA:

(a)   under subsection 11AF(3) of the Banking Act 1959 (the Act), REVOKE Banking
      (prudential standard) determination No. 13 of 2022, including Prudential
      Standard APS 210 Liquidity made under that determination; and

(b)   under subsection 11AF(1) of the Act, DETERMINE Prudential Standard APS 210
      Liquidity in the form set out in the schedule, which applies to all ADIs and
      authorised NOHCs to the extent provided in paragraphs 2 to 5 of the prudential
      standard.

This instrument commences on 1 July 2025.

Dated: 13 April 2025




Sean Carmody
Executive Director
Policy and Advice Division


Interpretation
In this instrument:
APRA means the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority.
ADI, authorised NOHC and prudential standard have their respective meanings
given in subsection 5(1) of the Act.




                       Authorised Version F2025L00653 registered 06/06/2025
Schedule
Prudential Standard APS 210 Liquidity comprises the document commencing on the
following page.




                      Authorised Version F2025L00653 registered 06/06/2025
                                                                               July 2025




Prudential Standard APS 210
Liquidity
Objectives and key requirements of this Prudential
Standard

This Prudential Standard requires an authorised deposit-taking institution to adopt
prudent practices in managing its liquidity risks and to maintain an adequate level of
liquidity to meet its obligations as they fall due across a wide range of operating
circumstances.

The key requirements of this Prudential Standard are that an authorised deposit-taking
institution must:

•   have a risk management framework to measure, monitor and manage liquidity risk
    that is commensurate with the nature, scale and complexity of the institution;

•   maintain a portfolio of liquid assets sufficient in size and quality to enable the
    institution to withstand a severe liquidity stress; and

•   maintain a robust funding structure appropriate for its size, business mix and
    complexity.




                        Authorised Version F2025L00653 registered 06/06/2025
                                                                                                        July 2025




Table of contents

Application ........................................................................................................3
Interpretation.....................................................................................................3
Definitions .........................................................................................................4
Key principles....................................................................................................4
Board and senior management responsibilities ................................................4
Liquidity risk management framework ..............................................................6
Management of liquidity risk .............................................................................7
Funding strategy ...............................................................................................8
Contingency funding plan .................................................................................9
Classification of ADIs ......................................................................................10
Liquidity coverage ratio ADIs ..........................................................................10
Minimum liquidity holdings ADIs .....................................................................10
Net stable funding ratio ...................................................................................10
Stress testing ..................................................................................................11
Local operational capacity ..............................................................................11
Adjustments and exclusions ...........................................................................12
Previous exercise of discretion .......................................................................12

Attachment A - Liquidity coverage ratio ..........................................................13

Attachment B - Minimum liquidity holdings approach .....................................34

Attachment C - Net stable funding ratio ..........................................................35




                                                                                                     APS 210 - 2

                                 Authorised Version F2025L00653 registered 06/06/2025
                                                                                 July 2025




Authority

1.   This Prudential Standard is made under section 11AF of the Banking Act 1959
     (Banking Act).

Application

2.   This Prudential Standard applies to all authorised deposit-taking institutions
     (ADIs) under the Banking Act.

3.   A reference to an ADI in this Prudential Standard is a reference to:

     (a)    an ADI on a Level 1 basis; and

     (b)    a group of which an ADI is a member on a Level 2 basis.

4.   If an ADI to which this Prudential Standard applies is:

     (a)    the holding company for a group of bodies corporate, the ADI must ensure
            that the requirements in this Prudential Standard are met on a Level 2 basis,
            where applicable; or

     (b)    a subsidiary of an authorised non-operating holding company (authorised
            NOHC), the authorised NOHC must ensure that the requirements in this
            Prudential Standard are met on a Level 2 basis, where applicable.

5.   If an ADI, or a member of its Level 2 group, is the originating ADI in a
     securitisation and meets the operational requirements for regulatory capital relief
     under Prudential Standard APS 120 Securitisation (APS 120), the ADI may
     exclude the assets and liabilities of the relevant special purpose vehicles (SPVs)
     from the calculation of its minimum liquidity holdings (MLH) and net stable
     funding ratio (NSFR), as applicable. For the purposes of calculating its liquidity
     coverage ratio (LCR), an ADI must include the cash flows from the assets and
     liabilities of SPVs related to the ADI’s securitisation activities in the ADI’s
     reported amounts.

6.   This Prudential Standard commences on 1 July 2025.

Interpretation

7.   Terms that are defined in Prudential Standard CPS 001 Defined terms appear in
     bold the first time they are used in this Prudential Standard.

8.   Where this Prudential Standard provides for APRA to exercise a power or
     discretion, this power or discretion is to be exercised in writing.

9.   In this Prudential Standard, unless the contrary intention appears, a reference to
     an Act, Regulations or Prudential Standard is a reference to the instrument as in
     force from time to time.



                                                                               APS 210 - 3

                        Authorised Version F2025L00653 registered 06/06/2025
                                                                                 July 2025




Definitions

10.   The following definitions apply in this Prudential Standard:

      (a)   associated entity – an associated entity within the meaning of section
            50AAA of the Corporations Act 2001; and

      (b)   financial institution – for the avoidance of doubt, a financial institution
            includes a money market corporation, finance company, friendly society
            and the trustee of a superannuation/pension fund, public unit trust/mutual
            fund or cash management trust.

Key principles

11.   An ADI is responsible for the sound management of its liquidity risk and must
      have a robust framework to manage its liquidity risk accordingly.

12.   An ADI must at all times maintain sufficient liquidity to meet its obligations as
      they fall due and hold a minimum level of liquid assets to survive a severe
      liquidity stress.

13.   An ADI must ensure that its activities are funded with stable sources of funding
      on an ongoing basis.

14.   An ADI must inform APRA as soon as possible of any concerns it has about its
      current or future liquidity position, and its plans to address those concerns. In
      particular, if an ADI experiences a severe liquidity stress, it must notify APRA
      immediately and advise the action that is being taken to address the situation.

Board and senior management responsibilities

15.   An ADI’s Board of directors (Board) is ultimately responsible for the sound and
      prudent management of the liquidity risk of the ADI. An ADI must maintain a
      liquidity risk management framework commensurate with the level and extent of
      liquidity risk to which the ADI is exposed from its activities. In relation to a
      foreign ADI, the responsibilities of the Board in this Prudential Standard are to
      be fulfilled by the senior officer outside Australia.

16.   The liquidity risk management framework must include, at a minimum:

      (a)   a statement of the ADI’s liquidity risk tolerance, approved by the Board;

      (b)   the liquidity management strategy and policy of the ADI, approved by the
            Board;

      (c)   the ADI’s operating standards (e.g. in the form of policies, procedures and
            controls) for identifying, measuring, monitoring and controlling its
            liquidity risk in accordance with its liquidity risk tolerance;

      (d)   the ADI’s funding strategy, approved by the Board; and


                                                                               APS 210 - 4

                        Authorised Version F2025L00653 registered 06/06/2025
                                                                                  July 2025




      (e)   a contingency funding plan.

17.   The Board must ensure that:

      (a)   senior management and other relevant personnel have the necessary
            experience to manage liquidity risk; and

      (b)   the ADI’s liquidity risk management framework and liquidity risk
            management practices are documented and reviewed at least annually.

18.   The Board must review regular reports on the liquidity position of the ADI and,
      where necessary, information on new or emerging liquidity risks.

19.   An ADI’s senior management must, at a minimum:

      (a)   develop a liquidity management strategy, policies and processes in
            accordance with the Board-approved liquidity tolerance;

      (b)   ensure that the ADI maintains sufficient liquidity at all times;

      (c)   determine the structure, responsibilities and controls for managing liquidity
            risk and for overseeing the liquidity positions of all legal entities, branches
            and subsidiaries in the jurisdictions in which the ADI is active, and outline
            these elements clearly in the ADI’s liquidity policies;

      (d)   ensure that the ADI has adequate internal controls to ensure the integrity
            of its liquidity risk management processes;

      (e)   ensure that stress tests, contingency funding plans and holdings of liquid
            assets are effective and appropriate for the ADI;

      (f)   establish a set of reporting criteria specifying the scope, manner and
            frequency of reporting for various recipients (such as the Board, senior
            management and the asset/liability committee) including the parties
            responsible for preparing the reports;

      (g)   establish specific procedures and approvals necessary for exceptions to
            policies and limits, including escalation procedures and follow-up actions
            to be taken for breaches of limits;

      (h)   closely monitor current trends and potential market developments that may
            present significant, unprecedented and complex challenges for managing
            liquidity risk so that appropriate and timely changes to the liquidity
            management strategy may be made as needed; and

      (i)   continuously review information on the ADI’s liquidity developments and
            report to the Board on a regular basis.

20.   Senior management and the Board must be able to demonstrate a thorough
      understanding of the links between funding liquidity risk (the risk that an ADI


                                                                                APS 210 - 5

                         Authorised Version F2025L00653 registered 06/06/2025
                                                                                  July 2025




      may not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due) and market
      liquidity risk (the risk that liquidity in financial markets, such as the market for
      debt securities, may reduce significantly), as well as how other risks, including
      credit, market, operational and reputation risks, affect the ADI’s overall liquidity
      risk management strategy.

Liquidity risk management framework

21.   An ADI’s liquidity risk tolerance defines the level of liquidity risk that the ADI
      is willing to assume. An ADI’s liquidity risk tolerance must be documented and
      appropriate for the ADI’s operations and strategy and its role in the financial
      system.

22.   The liquidity risk tolerance must be reviewed, at least annually, to reflect the
      ADI’s financial condition and funding capacity.

23.   In setting the liquidity risk tolerance, the Board and senior management must
      ensure that the risk tolerance allows the ADI to effectively manage its liquidity
      position in such a way that it is able to withstand a prolonged period of stress.

24.   The liquidity risk tolerance must be articulated in such a way that clearly states
      the trade-off between risks and profits.

25.   An ADI’s liquidity risk management framework must clearly set out the
      organisational structure as it relates to liquidity for the ADI on both a Level 1 and
      Level 2 basis, and define the responsibilities and roles of management involved
      in managing liquidity risk.

26.   An ADI’s liquidity risk management framework must be formulated to ensure
      that the ADI maintains sufficient liquidity, including a cushion of unencumbered
      liquid assets, to withstand a range of stress events, including those involving the
      loss or impairment of both unsecured and secured funding sources. The source of
      liquidity stress could be specific to the ADI or market-wide or a combination of
      the two.

27.   An ADI’s liquidity risk management framework must be well integrated into the
      ADI’s overall risk management process.

28.   An ADI’s liquidity risk management oversight function must be operationally
      independent and staffed with personnel who have the skills and authority to
      challenge the ADI’s treasury and other liquidity risk management businesses.

29.   The liquidity management strategy must include specific policies on liquidity
      management, such as:

      (a)   the composition and maturity of assets and liabilities;

      (b)   the diversity and stability of funding sources;




                                                                                APS 210 - 6

                         Authorised Version F2025L00653 registered 06/06/2025
                                                                                 July 2025




      (c)   the approach to managing liquidity in different currencies, across borders,
            and across business lines and legal entities; and

      (d)   the approach to intraday liquidity management.

30.   The liquidity management strategy must take account of the ADI’s liquidity
      needs under normal conditions as well as periods of liquidity stress. The
      strategy must include quantitative and qualitative targets.

31.   The liquidity management strategy must be appropriate for the nature, scale and
      complexity of the ADI. In formulating this strategy, the ADI must consider its
      legal structure, key business lines, the breadth and diversity of markets, products
      and jurisdictions in which it operates and home and host regulatory requirements.

32.   The liquidity management strategy, key policies for implementing the strategy
      and the liquidity risk management structure must be communicated throughout
      the organisation by senior management.

33.   An ADI must have adequate policies, procedures and controls in place to ensure
      that the Board and senior management are informed immediately of new and
      emerging liquidity concerns. These include increasing funding costs or
      concentrations, increases in any funding requirements, the lack of availability of
      alternative sources of liquidity, material and/or persistent breaches of limits, a
      significant decline in the cushion of unencumbered liquid assets or changes in
      external market conditions that could signal future difficulties.

34.   Senior management must be satisfied that all business units conducting activities
      that have an impact on liquidity are fully aware of the liquidity management
      strategy and operate in accordance with approved policies, procedures, limits and
      controls.

35.   The liquidity risk management framework must be subject to effective review on
      an ongoing basis, in addition to a comprehensive review as part of the review of
      the risk management framework under Prudential Standard CPS 220 Risk
      Management (CPS 220).

Management of liquidity risk

36.   An ADI must have a sound process for identifying, measuring, monitoring and
      controlling liquidity risk. This process must include a robust framework for
      comprehensively projecting cash flows arising from assets, liabilities and off-
      balance sheet items over an appropriate set of time horizons.

37.   An ADI must set limits to control its liquidity risk exposure and vulnerabilities.
      Limits and corresponding escalation procedures must be reviewed regularly.
      Limits must be relevant to the business in terms of its location, complexity of
      activity, nature of products, currencies and markets served. Where a liquidity risk
      limit is breached, an ADI must implement a plan of action to review the exposure
      and reduce it to a level that is within the limit.



                                                                               APS 210 - 7

                        Authorised Version F2025L00653 registered 06/06/2025
                                                                                  July 2025




38.   An ADI must actively manage its collateral positions, differentiating between
      encumbered and unencumbered assets. An ADI must monitor the legal entity and
      physical location where collateral is held and how it may be mobilised in a timely
      manner.

39.   An ADI must design a set of early warning indicators to aid its daily liquidity
      risk management processes in identifying the emergence of increased risk or
      vulnerabilities in its liquidity risk position or potential funding needs. Such early
      warning indicators must be structured so as to assist in the identification and
      escalation of any negative trends in the ADI’s liquidity position and lead to an
      assessment and potential response by management to mitigate the ADI’s exposure
      to these trends.

40.   An ADI must have a reliable management information system that provides the
      Board, senior management and other appropriate personnel with timely and
      forward-looking information on the liquidity position of the ADI.

41.   An ADI must actively manage its intraday liquidity positions and risks in
      order to meet payment and settlement obligations on a timely basis under both
      normal and stressed conditions, thus contributing to the orderly functioning of
      payment and settlement systems.

42.   An ADI must develop and implement a costs and benefits allocation process for
      funding and liquidity that appropriately apportions the costs of prudent liquidity
      management to the sources of liquidity risk and provides appropriate incentives
      to manage liquidity risk.

43.   An ADI active in multiple currencies must:

      (a)   maintain liquid assets consistent with the distribution of its liquidity needs
            by currency;

      (b)   assess its aggregate foreign currency liquidity needs and determine an
            acceptable level of currency mismatches; and

      (c)   undertake a separate analysis of its strategy for each currency in which it
            has material activities, considering potential constraints in times of stress.

Funding strategy

44.   An ADI must:

      (a)   develop and document a three-year funding strategy, which must be
            provided to APRA on request;

      (b)   maintain an ongoing presence in its chosen funding markets and strong
            relationships with funds providers; and




                                                                                APS 210 - 8

                         Authorised Version F2025L00653 registered 06/06/2025
                                                                                  July 2025




      (c)   regularly gauge its capacity to raise funds quickly. It must identify the main
            factors that affect its ability to raise funds and monitor those factors closely
            to ensure that estimates of fund-raising capacity remain valid.

45.   The funding strategy must be reviewed and approved by the Board, at least
      annually, and supported by robust assumptions in line with the ADI’s liquidity
      management strategy and business objectives.

46.   The funding strategy must be reviewed and updated, at least annually, to account
      for, at a minimum, changed funding conditions and/or a change in the ADI’s
      strategy. An ADI must advise APRA of any material changes to the ADI’s
      funding strategy.

Contingency funding plan

47.   An ADI must have a formal contingency funding plan that clearly sets out the
      strategies for addressing liquidity shortfalls in stressed situations. The plan must
      outline policies to manage a range of stress environments, establish clear lines
      of responsibility and include clear invocation and escalation procedures.

48.   An ADI’s contingency funding plan must be commensurate with its complexity,
      risk profile, scope of operations and role in the financial systems in which it
      operates. The plan must articulate available contingency funding sources and the
      amount of funds an ADI estimates can be derived from these sources, clear
      escalation/prioritisation procedures detailing when and how each of the actions
      can and must be activated and the lead time needed to tap additional funds from
      each of the contingency sources. The contingency funding plan must provide a
      framework with a high degree of flexibility so that an ADI can respond quickly in
      a variety of situations.

49.   The plan’s design, scope and procedures must be closely integrated with the
      ADI’s ongoing analysis of liquidity risk and with the assumptions used in its
      stress tests and the results of those stress tests. As such, the plan must address
      issues over a range of different time horizons, including intraday.

50.   For an ADI that has retail deposits, the plan must address a retail deposit run and
      must include measures to repay retail depositors as soon as practicable. The retail
      run contingency plan must not rely upon closing distribution channels to retail
      depositors. The retail run contingency plan must seek to ensure that in the event
      of a loss of market confidence in the ADI, retail depositors wishing to retrieve
      their deposits may do so as quickly and as conveniently as is practicable in the
      circumstances, and within the contractual terms and conditions applicable to the
      relevant deposit products.

51.   An ADI’s contingency funding plan must be reviewed and tested, at least
      annually, to ensure its effectiveness and operational feasibility. An ADI’s Board
      must review and approve the contingency funding plan, at least annually, or
      more often as changing business or market circumstances require.



                                                                                APS 210 - 9

                         Authorised Version F2025L00653 registered 06/06/2025
                                                                                   July 2025




Classification of ADIs

52.   For a locally incorporated ADI, APRA will determine whether an ADI is
      classified as a Liquidity Coverage Ratio ADI (LCR ADI) or a Minimum Liquidity
      Holdings ADI (MLH ADI) for the purposes of this Prudential Standard.

53.   A foreign ADI is an LCR ADI, unless APRA determines that the foreign ADI is
      an MLH ADI. In making a determination, APRA will give consideration to the
      ADI’s size and complexity with respect to liquidity risk.

54.   An ADI is required to meet the minimum quantitative requirements associated
      with its classification on a continuous basis, absent a situation of financial stress.

Liquidity coverage ratio ADIs

55.   An LCR ADI must maintain an adequate level of unencumbered high-quality
      liquid assets (HQLA) to meet its liquidity needs for a 30 calendar day period
      under a severe stress scenario, in accordance with Attachment A. Absent a
      situation of financial stress (refer to paragraph 5 of Attachment A):

      (a)   for a locally incorporated ADI, the value of each of the Australian dollar
            (AUD) LCR and all currencies LCR must not be less than 100 per cent; and

      (b)   for a foreign ADI, the value of the LCR must not be less than 40 per cent
            on an all currencies basis.

56.   APRA may require an LCR ADI to maintain a higher minimum LCR if APRA
      has concerns about the ADI’s liquidity risk profile or the quality of its liquidity
      risk management.

Minimum liquidity holdings ADIs

57.   An MLH ADI must maintain a minimum holding of nine per cent of its liabilities
      in specified liquid assets, in accordance with Attachment B.

58.   APRA may require an MLH ADI to maintain higher minimum liquidity holdings
      if APRA has concerns about the ADI’s liquidity risk profile or the quality of its
      liquidity risk management.

Net stable funding ratio

59.   A locally incorporated ADI classified as an LCR ADI must meet the NSFR
      requirements in this Prudential Standard.

60.   A locally incorporated LCR ADI must maintain an NSFR of at least 100 per cent
      at all times.

61.   APRA may require an LCR ADI to maintain a higher minimum NSFR where
      APRA considers it appropriate to do so, including if it has concerns about the



                                                                                APS 210 - 10

                         Authorised Version F2025L00653 registered 06/06/2025
                                                                                    July 2025




      ADI’s funding or liquidity risk profile or the quality of its liquidity risk
      management.

Stress testing

62.   In addition to the requirements contained in paragraphs 52 to 56 of this Prudential
      Standard, an LCR ADI must conduct stress tests on a regular basis for a variety
      of short-term and protracted institution-specific and market-wide stress scenarios
      (individually and in combination) to identify sources of potential liquidity strain
      and to ensure that current exposures remain in accordance with the ADI’s
      liquidity risk tolerance.

63.   The stress test outcomes must be used to adjust the ADI’s liquidity management
      strategy, policies and positions and to develop effective contingency plans to deal
      with events of liquidity stress.

64.   Stress tests must enable the ADI to analyse the impact of stress scenarios on its
      Level 1 and Level 2 liquidity positions, as well as on the liquidity positions of
      individual business lines.

65.   An LCR ADI’s stress test scenarios and related assumptions must be well
      documented and reviewed together with the stress test results. Stress test results
      and vulnerabilities and any resulting actions must be reported to, and discussed
      with, the Board and APRA. Results of the stress tests must be integrated into the
      ADI’s strategic planning process and its day-to-day risk management practices.
      The results of the stress tests must be explicitly considered in the setting of internal
      limits.

66.   An LCR ADI must decide how to incorporate the results of stress tests in
      assessing and planning for related potential funding shortfalls in its contingency
      funding plan.

Local operational capacity

67.   A foreign ADI must perform an assessment of its local operational capacity
      (LOC) to liquidate assets and make or receive payments without assistance from
      staff located outside Australia, at least annually, and provide the results of the
      assessment to APRA upon request.

68.   A foreign ADI, in performing a LOC assessment, must ensure at a minimum, it
      considers a scenario involving a combination of time zones, different public
      holidays and an offshore operational risk event under which the foreign ADI
      would operate, including making and receiving payments, for a minimum of three
      business days without assistance from staff located outside Australia. For this
      purpose, the foreign ADI may assume that related-party operations within
      Australia continue to function normally.

69.   APRA may impose additional requirements on a foreign ADI if the LOC
      assessment highlights issues concerning the ability of the foreign ADI to liquidate


                                                                                 APS 210 - 11

                          Authorised Version F2025L00653 registered 06/06/2025
                                                                                     July 2025




      assets and make or receive payments without assistance from staff located outside
      Australia.

Exceptional Liquidity Assistance

70.   An ADI under severe liquidity stress may request Exceptional Liquidity
      Assistance (ELA) from the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA). Prior to
      approaching the RBA, the ADI must notify APRA immediately of the ADI’s
      liquidity concerns and its intention to request ELA. An ADI must provide any
      information requested by APRA or the RBA in relation to the ADI’s ELA request.
      An ADI must have the operational capability to provide information along with
      its application for ELA or within other timeframes specified by APRA.

Adjustments and exclusions

71.   APRA may adjust or exclude a specific requirement in this Prudential Standard
      in relation to an ADI or authorised NOHC.1

Previous exercise of discretion

72.   An ADI must contact APRA if it seeks to place reliance, for the purposes of
      complying with this Prudential Standard, on a previous exemption or other
      exercise of discretion by APRA under a previous version of this Prudential
      Standard.




1     Refer to subsection 11AF(2) of the Banking Act.


                                                                                  APS 210 - 12

                           Authorised Version F2025L00653 registered 06/06/2025
                                                                                     July 2025




Attachment A
Liquidity coverage ratio
1.   The objective of the LCR is to ensure that an ADI maintains an adequate level
     of unencumbered HQLA that can be converted into cash to meet its liquidity
     needs for a 30 calendar day time period under a severe liquidity stress scenario.

2.   The LCR has two components:

     (a)   the value of the stock of HQLA; and

     (b)   total net cash outflows, calculated according to the scenario parameters set
           out in this Attachment.

3.   The LCR is calculated as:

     Stock of HQLA
     Total net cash outflows over the next 30 calendar days

4.   An ADI must include an appropriate buffer of HQLA over the LCR requirement
     in line with its liquidity risk tolerance.

5.   During a period of financial stress, an ADI may need to liquidate part of its stock
     of HQLA and/or draw on its Committed Liquidity Facility (CLF) with the RBA,
     using the cash generated to cover cash outflows; as a consequence, the LCR may
     fall below the minimum level required under paragraph 55 of this Prudential
     Standard. An ADI must inform APRA immediately in the event of an actual
     breach of its LCR requirement or if it becomes aware of circumstances that may
     result in a breach of its LCR requirement.

Eligible stock of high-quality liquid assets (HQLA)

6.   There are two categories of assets that may be included in the stock of HQLA.
     Assets that may be included in each category are those that the ADI is holding
     on the first day of the stress period, irrespective of their residual maturity. The
     highest-quality liquid assets (HQLA1) may be included without limit, while
     other high-quality liquid assets (HQLA2) – which includes HQLA2A and
     HQLA2B – may only comprise up to 40 per cent of the total stock of HQLA.
     HQLA2B must not exceed 15 per cent of the total stock of HQLA. HQLA2B
     must be included within the overall 40 per cent cap on HQLA2.

7.   The calculation of the 40 per cent cap detailed in paragraph 6 of this Attachment,
     and the 15 per cent cap detailed in paragraph 6 of this Attachment, must take into
     account the impact on the stock of HQLA of the amounts of HQLA1 and
     HQLA2 involved in secured funding, secured lending and collateral swaps
     transactions maturing within 30 calendar days. The maximum amount of
     adjusted HQLA2 in the stock of HQLA is equal to two-thirds of the adjusted


                                                                     APS 210 Attachment A - 13

                        Authorised Version F2025L00653 registered 06/06/2025
                                                                                     July 2025



     amount of HQLA1 after haircuts have been applied. The maximum amount of
     adjusted HQLA2B in the stock of HQLA is equal to either: 15/85 of the sum of
     the adjusted amounts of HQLA1 and HQLA2A after haircuts have been applied;
     or, in cases where the 40 per cent cap is binding, up to one quarter of the adjusted
     amounts of HQLA1 after haircuts are applied.

8.   The adjusted amount of HQLA1 is the amount of HQLA1 that would result
     after unwinding short-term secured funding, secured lending and collateral swap
     transactions involving the exchange of any HQLA for any HQLA1 that meet, or
     would meet if held unencumbered, the operational requirements for HQLA set
     out in paragraphs 22 to 25 of this Attachment. The adjusted amount of HQLA2A
     is defined as the amount of HQLA2A that would result after unwinding those
     short-term secured funding, secured lending and collateral swap transactions
     involving the exchange of any HQLA for any HQLA2A that meet, or would
     meet if held unencumbered, the operational requirements for HQLA set out in
     paragraphs 22 to 25 of this Attachment. The adjusted amount of HQLA2B is
     the amount of HQLA2B that would result after unwinding short-term secured
     funding, secured lending and collateral swap transactions involving the
     exchange of any HQLA for HQLA2B that meet, or would meet if held
     unencumbered, the operational requirements for HQLA set out in paragraphs
     22 to 25 of this Attachment. In this context, short-term transactions are
     transactions with a maturity date up to and including 30 calendar days.

     HQLA1

9.   HQLA1 may comprise an unlimited share of the stock of eligible HQLA. HQLA1
     are included at market value and are not subject to a haircut under the LCR.
     These assets are limited to:

     (a)   notes and coin;

     (b)   central bank balances, to the extent that these balances may be drawn down
           in times of stress;

     (c)   marketable securities representing claims on or claims guaranteed by
           sovereigns, central banks, public sector entities (PSEs), the Bank for
           International Settlements (BIS), the International Monetary Fund (IMF),
           the European Central Bank (ECB) and European Union (EU) or
           multilateral development banks (MDBs), and that satisfy all of the
           following conditions:
           (i)    assigned a zero per cent risk-weight under Attachment B of Prudential
                  Standard APS 112 Capital Adequacy: Standardised Approach to
                  Credit Risk (APS 112);

           (ii)   traded in large, deep and active repo or cash markets characterised by
                  a low level of concentration;

           (iii) proven record as a reliable source of liquidity in the markets (repo or
                 sale) even during stressed market conditions; and


                                                                     APS 210 Attachment A - 14

                        Authorised Version F2025L00653 registered 06/06/2025
                                                                                       July 2025



            (iv) not an obligation of a financial institution or any of its associated
                 entities;

      (d) for non-zero per cent risk-weighted sovereigns: sovereign or central bank
          debt securities issued in domestic currencies by the sovereign or central
          bank in the country in which the liquidity risk is being taken or in the
          ADI’s home country; and

      (e)   for non-zero per cent risk-weighted sovereigns: domestic sovereign or
            central bank debt securities issued in foreign currencies are eligible up to
            the amount of the ADI’s stressed net cash outflows in that specific foreign
            currency stemming from the ADI’s operations in the jurisdiction where the
            ADI’s liquidity risk is being taken.

      HQLA2A

10.   An ADI may include the following as HQLA2A where these assets have been
      recognised by APRA or the relevant prudential regulator in the jurisdiction where
      the liquidity risk is taken. A 15 per cent haircut is applied to the current market
      value of each HQLA2A held in the stock of eligible HQLA. HQLA2A are limited
      to:

      (a)   marketable securities representing claims on or guaranteed by sovereigns,
            central banks, PSEs or MDBs that satisfy all of the following conditions:

            (i)    assigned a 20 per cent risk-weight under Attachment B of APS 112;

            (ii)   traded in large, deep and active repo or cash markets characterised
                   by a low level of concentration;

            (iii) proven record as a reliable source of liquidity in the markets (repo
                  or sale) even during stressed market conditions (i.e. maximum
                  decline of price not exceeding 10 per cent or increase in haircut not
                  exceeding 10 percentage points over a 30-day period during a relevant
                  period of significant liquidity stress); and

            (iv) not an obligation of a financial institution or any of its associated
                 entities;

      (b)   corporate debt securities (including commercial paper) and covered bonds
            that satisfy all of the following conditions:

            (i)    in the case of corporate debt securities: are not issued by a financial
                   institution or any of its associated entities and are plain vanilla assets
                   whose valuation is readily available based on standard methods and
                   does not depend on private knowledge;

            (ii)   in the case of covered bonds: are not issued by the ADI itself or any
                   of its associated entities;



                                                                       APS 210 Attachment A - 15

                          Authorised Version F2025L00653 registered 06/06/2025
                                                                                        July 2025




            (iii) the assets have a credit rating from a recognised external credit
                  assessment institution (ECAI) of at least AA-2 or, in the case of an
                  ADI that has approval to use the internal ratings-based (IRB)
                  approach to credit risk under Prudential Standard APS 113
                  Capital Adequacy: Internal Ratings-based Approach to Credit Risk
                  (APS 113), do not have a credit assessment by a recognised ECAI
                  and are internally rated as having a probability of default (PD)
                  corresponding to a credit rating of at least AA-;

            (iv) traded in large, deep and active repo or cash markets characterised
                 by a low level of concentration; and

            (v)    proven record as a reliable source of liquidity in the markets (repo
                   or sale) even during stressed market conditions (i.e. maximum
                   decline of price or increase in haircut over a 30-day period during a
                   relevant period of significant liquidity stress not exceeding 10 per
                   cent).

11.   The portfolio of HQLA2A held by the ADI must be well diversified in terms of
      type of assets, type of issuer and specific counterparty or issuer.

      HQLA2B

12.   An ADI may include the following as HQLA2B where these assets have been
      recognised by APRA or the relevant prudential regulator in the jurisdiction where
      the liquidity risk is taken:

      (a) subject to a 25 per cent haircut, residential mortgage backed securities that
          satisfy the following criteria:

            (i)    are not issued by, nor are the underlying exposures originated by, the
                   ADI itself or an associated entity of the ADI;

            (ii)   have a long-term credit rating from a recognised ECAI of AA or
                   higher3 or, in the absence of a long-term rating, a short-term rating
                   equivalent in quality to the long-term rating;

            (iii) traded in large, deep and active repo or cash markets characterised
                  by a low level of concentration;

            (iv) proven record as a reliable source of liquidity in markets (repo or
                 sale) even during stressed market conditions (i.e. a maximum
                 decline in price not exceeding 20 per cent or increase in haircut over
                 a 30-day period not exceeding 20 percentage points during a relevant

2     In the event of an asset having multiple assessments, the applicable rating must be determined
      according to the method used in APS 112.
3     Refer to footnote 2.


                                                                        APS 210 Attachment A - 16

                           Authorised Version F2025L00653 registered 06/06/2025
                                                                                         July 2025



                  period of significant liquidity stress);

           (v)    the underlying asset pool is restricted to residential mortgages and
                  cannot contain structured products;

           (vi) the underlying mortgages are full recourse loans and, at issuance,
                have a maximum average loan-to-valuation ratio (LVR) of 80 per
                cent; and

           (vii) the securitisation is subject to risk retention regulations which
                 requires an issuer to retain an interest in the assets they securitise;

    (b) subject to a 50 per cent haircut, corporate debt securities (including
        commercial paper) that satisfy the following criteria:

           (i)    are not issued by a financial institution or an associated entity;

           (ii)   either:

                           (1) have a long-term credit rating from a recognised ECAI
                           between A+ and BBB-4 or, in the absence of a long-term rating,
                           a short-term rating equivalent in quality to the long-term rating;
                           or

                           (2) in the case of an ADI that has approval to use the IRB
                           approach to credit risk under APS 113, do not have a credit
                           assessment by a recognised ECAI and are internally rated as
                           having a PD estimate corresponding to a credit rating of
                           between A+ and BBB-;

           (iii) traded in large, deep and active repo or cash markets characterised
                 by a low level of concentration; and

           (iv) proven record as a reliable source of liquidity in markets (repo or
                sale) even during stressed market conditions (i.e. a maximum
                decline in price not exceeding 20 per cent or increase in haircut over
                a 30-day period not exceeding 20 percentage points during a relevant
                period of significant liquidity stress).

    (c) subject to a 50 per cent haircut, common equity shares that satisfy the
        following criteria:

           (i)    are not issued by a financial institution or an associated entity;

           (ii)   are exchange traded and centrally cleared;

           (iii) are a constituent of the major stock index where the liquidity risk is

4   Refer to footnote 2.


                                                                         APS 210 Attachment A - 17

                            Authorised Version F2025L00653 registered 06/06/2025
                                                                                        July 2025



                  taken;

            (iv) are denominated in the currency of the jurisdiction where a bank’s
                 liquidity risk is taken;

            (v)   traded in large, deep active repo or cash markets characterised by a
                  low level of concentration; and

            (vi) proven record as a reliable source of liquidity in markets (repo or
                 sale) even during stressed market conditions, i.e. a maximum decline
                 in share price not exceeding 40 per cent or increase in haircut not
                 exceeding 40 percentage points over a 30-day period during a
                 relevant period of significant liquidity stress.

Use of alternative liquid asset treatment for LCR

13.   A locally incorporated LCR ADI may establish a CLF with the RBA, sufficient
      in size to cover any shortfall in Australian dollars between the ADI’s holdings of
      HQLA and net cash outflows. Qualifying collateral for the CLF will comprise
      all assets eligible for repurchase transactions with the RBA under normal market
      conditions and any other assets nominated by the RBA.

14.   The CLF must only be used by an ADI to manage any shortfall in Australian
      dollars between its holding of HQLA and its net cash outflows.

15.   The amount of HQLA that may be included in the numerator of an ADI’s LCR
      calculation is the market value of HQLA1 and HQLA2 held by the ADI, after
      applicable haircuts as outlined in paragraphs 10 and 12 of this Attachment, plus
      the lowest of:

      (a)   the contractual amount of the CLF an ADI has agreed with the RBA that
            is approved by APRA for LCR purposes (refer to paragraphs 17 to 20 of
            this Attachment); or

      (b)   the contractual amount of the CLF as defined in paragraph 15(a),

            less the market value, after RBA margins have been applied, of eligible
            CLF securities that have been pledged as collateral under maturing secured
            funding transactions to a counterparty and to which a zero per cent run-off
            rate applies,

            plus the market value, after RBA margins have been applied, of eligible
            CLF securities that have been received by the ADI as collateral under
            maturing secured lending transactions, where the collateral received is not
            used to cover short positions as outlined in paragraph 56 of this Attachment,
            and to which a zero per cent inflow rate applies; or

      (c)   the market value of the assets held by an ADI as collateral for the CLF after
            applicable RBA margins have been applied.


                                                                        APS 210 Attachment A - 18

                           Authorised Version F2025L00653 registered 06/06/2025
                                                                                     July 2025




16.   Assets held by an ADI for the purposes of the CLF must:

      (a)   meet the operational requirements for HQLA as outlined in paragraphs 22
            to 25 of this Attachment; and

      (b)   be well diversified in terms of type of assets, type of issuer and specific
            counterparty or issuer.

17.   An ADI that requires a CLF from the RBA for LCR purposes must apply to
      APRA for approval before establishing the CLF.

18.   To facilitate APRA’s approval process, the ADI’s funding strategy must clearly
      state the amount of the CLF required in the forecast period. An ADI must make
      every reasonable effort to manage its liquidity risk through its own balance sheet
      management before applying for a CLF for LCR purposes.

19.   Following the initial approval, an ADI must apply on an annual basis for
      APRA’s approval of the size of the CLF that may be recognised for LCR
      purposes.

20.   In the case of unforeseen changes in circumstances, an ADI may apply to
      APRA, at any time, for a change in the amount of its CLF to be recognised for
      LCR purposes by submitting an updated Board-approved funding and liquidity
      plan.

21.   In the event that an ADI draws funds under its CLF other than for intraday
      purposes or the funding of end-of-day balances held at the RBA, senior
      management must attest that the proceeds of the drawdown will be used for
      Australian dollar liquidity needs only. APRA must be advised of any proposed
      drawdown of the CLF that is not for intraday purposes or for the funding of end-
      of-day balances held at the RBA.

Operational requirements

22.   All assets in the stock of eligible HQLA must be managed as part of that stock
      and are subject to the following operational requirements:

      (a)   the assets must be available for the ADI to convert into cash at any time;

      (b)   the assets must be unencumbered and be under the control of the specific
            function or functions charged with managing the liquidity risk of the ADI.
            This would typically be the treasurer who must have the continuous
            authority, and legal and operational capability, to monetise any asset in the
            stock; and

      (c)   control must be evidenced either by maintaining assets in a separate pool
            managed by the function with the sole intent to use as a source of contingent
            funds, or by demonstrating that the function can monetise the asset at any


                                                                     APS 210 Attachment A - 19

                        Authorised Version F2025L00653 registered 06/06/2025
                                                                                      July 2025



            point in the 30-day stress period and that the proceeds of doing so are
            available to the function throughout the 30-day stress period without
            directly conflicting with a stated business or risk management strategy.

23.   The assets must not be pledged to secure, collateralise or credit enhance any
      transactions or be designated to cover operational costs (such as rents and
      salaries). Assets received in reverse repo and securities financing transactions
      that are held at the ADI, have not been rehypothecated and are legally and
      contractually available for the ADI’s use may be considered as part of the stock
      of HQLA.

24.   At Level 2, an ADI may also include in the stock of HQLA, liquid assets that
      qualify for inclusion in the numerator of the LCR as set out in paragraphs 9 to
      17, 22 to 23 and 28 of this Attachment, where they are held to meet legal entity
      requirements, where applicable, and the related risks as measured by the legal
      entity’s net cash outflows are also reflected in the LCR. Any surplus of liquid
      assets held at the legal entity may only be included in the Level 2 stock if those
      assets would be freely available to the consolidated (parent) entity in times of
      stress.

25.   For the purpose of calculating the LCR, if an eligible HQLA or eligible CLF
      liquid asset becomes ineligible (e.g. due to rating downgrade), an ADI may keep
      the asset in its stock of liquid assets for an additional 30 calendar days. This
      allows the ADI time to adjust its stock as needed or replace the asset.

Level 2 consolidated banking group

26.   The LCR is to be met by an ADI on both a Level 1 and Level 2 basis. Where an
      ADI has a branch or subsidiary in an offshore jurisdiction, in calculating a
      subsidiary’s LCR the ADI must apply the requirements outlined in this
      Prudential Standard. The only exceptions are:

      (a)   for retail and small and medium enterprise (SME) deposits, where the host
            supervisor’s outflow assumptions must be applied; and

      (b)   alternative liquid assets, as provided for in the Basel Committee on
            Banking Supervision’s (Basel Committee) global framework for liquidity
            risk and allowed by the host supervisor, may be included.

27.   Where an ADI has a branch or subsidiary in an offshore jurisdiction that does
      not apply the Basel Committee’s global framework for liquidity risk, the cash
      flow assumptions outlined in this Prudential Standard must be applied in
      calculating the ADI’s Level 2 LCR.

28.   An ADI with a material banking subsidiary in another offshore jurisdiction must
      ensure that the subsidiary maintains an LCR of at least 100 per cent. APRA may
      allow an ADI to include assets that are formally recognised as eligible liquid
      assets by the relevant offshore prudential regulator.



                                                                      APS 210 Attachment A - 20

                         Authorised Version F2025L00653 registered 06/06/2025
                                                                                       July 2025



29.   For the calculation of the Level 2 LCR, an ADI must take into account
      restrictions on the transferability of liquid assets across borders. Excess liquidity
      is not to be recognised in the Level 2 LCR unless there is reasonable certainty
      about the availability of such liquidity.

Net cash outflows

30.   Total net cash outflows represent the total expected cash outflows minus total
      expected cash inflows in the specified stress scenario for the subsequent 30
      calendar days. Total expected cash outflows are calculated by multiplying the
      outstanding balances of various categories or types of liabilities and off-balance
      sheet commitments by the rates at which they are expected to run off or be
      drawn down as set out in Table 3 of paragraph 53 of this Attachment. Total
      expected cash inflows are calculated by multiplying the outstanding balances
      of various categories of contractual receivables by the rates (refer to paragraphs
      54 to 66 of this Attachment) at which they are expected to flow in under the
      scenario, up to an aggregate cap of 75 per cent of total expected cash outflows.
      That is:

             Total net cash outflows over the next 30 calendar days = Total
             expected cash outflows – Min {total expected cash inflows; 75 per
             cent of total expected cash outflows}

31.   An ADI must not double- count items. That is, if assets are included as part of
      the stock of HQLA (the numerator of the LCR), the associated cash inflows
      cannot also be counted as cash inflows.

32.   APRA will assess the suitability of an ADI’s assumptions made for those cash
      flow items that are derived. An ADI must be in a position to provide analysis and
      evidence to justify the assumptions.

33.   Where APRA determines that an ADI is actively using collateral swaps for
      liquidity management purposes, APRA may require that the ADI include in its
      LCR calculation the net cash flow impact of collateral swaps based on a method
      determined by APRA at that time.

Cash outflows

Retail deposit outflows

34.   For the purposes of the LCR, retail deposits are defined as deposits placed with
      an ADI by a natural person. Deposits from legal entities, sole proprietorships or
      partnerships are captured in wholesale deposit categories. Retail deposits include
      demand deposits and term deposits, unless otherwise excluded under the criteria
      set out in paragraphs 41 and 42 of this Attachment.

35.   Where a person places funds with an intermediary, which then places those funds
      with an ADI, the deposit with the ADI is considered to be a deposit from a
      financial institution unless, during the next 30 days:


                                                                       APS 210 Attachment A - 21

                          Authorised Version F2025L00653 registered 06/06/2025
                                                                                      July 2025



      (a)   the person retains all legal rights regarding the withdrawal or other
            movement of the funds;

      (b)   the person exercises these rights in practice and cannot transfer these
            rights to the intermediary;

      (c)   there is clear and prominent disclosure to the person that the funds will be
            placed with the ADI; and

      (d)   the intermediary or an associated entity can neither make investment
            decisions on behalf of the person regarding the deposit, nor withdraw
            funds from the ADI in the absence of specific directions to do so from the
            person (other than miscellaneous items such as fees, expense
            reimbursements, taxes).

      If all of these conditions are satisfied, an ADI may treat the funds as if they are
      from the person. An ADI must be able to demonstrate how this treatment
      satisfies the conditions outlined in this paragraph.

36.   Retail deposits are divided into stable and less stable portions of funds, as
      described below.

37.   Stable deposits are the portion of deposits that are fully covered by the
      Financial Claims Scheme (or an effective government deposit insurance scheme)
      where:

      (a)   the depositor has other established relationships with the ADI that make
            deposit withdrawal highly unlikely; or

      (b)   the deposits are in transactional accounts (e.g. accounts where salaries
            are automatically credited).

38.   Less stable deposits are the portion of deposits that do not meet the requirements
      of stable deposits.

39.   Certain types of deposits are considered more likely to be withdrawn in a time of
      stress. These include high-value deposits (i.e. deposits above any government
      deposit guarantee limit), deposits from customers who do not have established
      relationships with an ADI that would make the deposit withdrawal unlikely,
      deposits where the internet is integral to the design, marketing and usage of the
      account (on-line accounts) and deposits with promotional interest rates (heavily
      rate-driven).

40.   An ADI must assess each less stable account or product balance against the
      following scorecard:

      Table 1 – The scorecard




                                                                      APS 210 Attachment A - 22

                         Authorised Version F2025L00653 registered 06/06/2025
                                                                                     July 2025




                                          Criteria                                     Score
        Deposit balance is greater than any government deposit guarantee                 2
        limit where it exists and, in its absence, where the deposit balance
        is greater than the equivalent of AUD 250,000
        Deposit is an on-line account                                                    2
        Absence of an established customer relationship                                  1
        Deposit is heavily rate-driven                                                   1

      The total score is then used to allocate the account or product deposit outflow as
      follows:

      Table 2 – Less stable deposit allocations

             Score             Run-off rate
              0–2               10 per cent
           3 or more            25 per cent

Fixed-term deposits

41.   Cash outflows related to fixed or term deposits with a residual maturity or
      withdrawal notice period of greater than 30 days will be excluded from LCR
      calculations if the depositor has no legal right to withdraw deposits within the
      30-day horizon of the LCR, or if early withdrawal results in a significant penalty
      that is materially greater than the loss of interest.

42.   If an ADI allows a depositor to withdraw such deposits despite a clause that says
      the depositor has no legal right to withdraw, the entire category of these funds
      must be treated as demand deposits.

43.   An ADI may allow depositors experiencing hardship to withdraw their term
      deposits without changing the treatment of the entire pool of deposits. The ADI
      must have a policy defining hardship.

Unsecured wholesale funding outflows

44.   For the purposes of the LCR, unsecured wholesale funding is defined as those
      liabilities and general obligations that are raised from non-natural persons (i.e.
      legal entities, including sole proprietorships and partnerships) and are not
      collateralised by legal rights to specifically designated assets owned by the
      borrowing institution in the case of bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation or
      resolution. Obligations related to derivative contracts are explicitly excluded
      from this definition.

45.   Wholesale funding included in the LCR is defined as all funding that is callable
      within the LCR’s horizon of 30 days or that has its earliest possible contractual


                                                                     APS 210 Attachment A - 23

                        Authorised Version F2025L00653 registered 06/06/2025
                                                                                      July 2025



      maturity date within this horizon (such as maturing term deposits and unsecured
      debt securities), as well as funding with an undetermined maturity. This must
      include all funding with options that are exercisable at the investor’s discretion
      within the 30-day horizon. Wholesale funding that is callable by the provider
      of the funds, subject to a contractually defined and binding notice period
      surpassing the 30-day horizon, may be excluded.

46.   Unsecured wholesale funding provided by SME customers may be treated as
      retail deposits where:

      (a)   the deposits and other extensions of funds made by non-financial SME
            customers are managed as retail exposures and are generally considered
            as having similar liquidity risk characteristics to retail accounts; and

      (b)   the total aggregated funding raised from an SME customer is less than
            AUD 2 million, (on a consolidated basis where applicable).

Operational deposits

47.   For the purpose of the LCR, operational deposits are those where customers
      place, or leave, deposits with an ADI in order to facilitate their access and ability
      to use payment and settlement systems and otherwise make payments. Deposits
      may only be included as operational deposits if the customer has a substantive
      dependency on the ADI and the deposit is required for such activities.

48.   For the purpose of determining operational deposits, qualifying activities in this
      context refer to clearing, custody or cash management activities where the
      customer is reliant on the ADI to perform these services as an independent third-
      party intermediary in order to fulfil its normal banking activities over the next 30
      days. These services must be provided to institutional customers under a legally
      binding agreement and the termination of such agreements must be subject either
      to a notice period of at least 30 days or to significant switching costs to be borne
      by the customer if the operational deposits are moved before 30 days.

49.   Qualifying operational deposits generated by such an activity are those where the
      deposits are:

      (a)   by-products of the underlying services provided by the ADI;

      (b)   not offered by the ADI in the wholesale market for the sole purpose of
            offering interest income; and

      (c)   held in specifically designated accounts and priced without giving an
            economic incentive to the customer to leave excess funds in these accounts.

50.   Any excess balances that could be withdrawn without jeopardising these
      clearing, custody or cash management activities do not qualify as operational
      deposits.



                                                                      APS 210 Attachment A - 24

                         Authorised Version F2025L00653 registered 06/06/2025
                                                                                      July 2025



Liquidity facilities

51.   A liquidity facility is any committed, undrawn back-up facility that would be
      used to refinance the debt obligations of a customer in situations where such a
      customer is unable to rollover that debt in financial markets. The amount of any
      commitment to be treated as a liquidity facility is the amount of the outstanding
      debt issued by the customer (or proportionate share of a syndicated facility)
      maturing within a 30-day period that is backstopped by the facility. Any
      additional capacity of the facility is to be treated as a committed credit facility.
      General working capital facilities for corporate entities (e.g. revolving credit
      facilities in place for general corporate or working capital purposes) must not be
      classified as liquidity facilities, but as credit facilities.

52.   Notwithstanding paragraph 51 of this Attachment, any facilities provided to
      hedge funds, money market funds and special purpose funding vehicles, or other
      vehicles used to finance an ADI’s own assets, must be captured in their entirety
      as a liquidity facility to a financial institution.




                                                                      APS 210 Attachment A - 25

                         Authorised Version F2025L00653 registered 06/06/2025
                                                                                        July 2025



53.   The following table sets out the run-off rates that must be applied to each liability
      and off-balance sheet cash outflow category.

      Table 3 – Cash outflow categories

           Run-off rate (%)                                Cash outflow category
                                         Retail and qualifying SME deposits (refer to
                                         paragraphs 34 to 40 and 46)
                  •

                      5                       •    Stable deposits
                      10                      •    Less stable retail deposits
                      25                      •    Higher run-off less stable retail deposits
                                         Unsecured wholesale funding (refer to
                                         paragraphs 44 to 46)
                      5                       •    Operational deposit balances from all
                                                   counterparties fully covered by deposit
                                                   insurance
                      25                      •    Operational deposit balances from all
                                                   counterparties not fully covered by deposit
                                                   insurance
                                              •    Non-operational deposits from non-
                                                   financial corporations, sovereigns, central
                                                   banks, PSEs, MDBs and SMEs of greater
                                                   than AUD 2m:
                      20                                o where the entire amount is fully
                                                          covered by deposit insurance
                      40                                o where the entire amount is not fully
                                                          covered by deposit insurance
                   100                        •    All other non-operational deposits
                   100                        •    Unsecured debt issuance
                                              Secured funding
                      0                       •    Secured funding transactions backed by
                                                   HQLA1, with any counterparty
                      0                       •    Secured funding transactions with any
                                                   counterparty backed by CLF-eligible debt
                                                   securities, where the ADI pledging assets
                                                   has a CLF with the RBA subject to the
                                                   ADI’s CLF limit




                                                                        APS 210 Attachment A - 26

                           Authorised Version F2025L00653 registered 06/06/2025
                                                                                          July 2025




          Run-off rate (%)                                Cash outflow category
                                        Secured funding (continued)
                    15                       •    Secured funding transactions backed by
                                                  HQLA2A, with any counterparty
                    25                       •    Secured funding transactions that are not
                                                  eligible for inclusion in the 0 or 15 per cent
                                                  categories above where the counterparties
                                                  are domestic sovereigns, PSEs (but not the
                                                  RBA) or MDBs with a risk weight of 20
                                                  per cent or lower under APS 112
                                             •    Secured funding transactions backed by
                                                  RMBS eligible for inclusion as HQLA2B
                    50                       •    Secured funding transactions backed by
                                                  other HQLA2B with any counterparty
                   100                       •    All other secured funding transactions
                                        Asset-backed commercial paper (ABCP), asset
                                        backed securities, covered bonds and other
                                        structured financing instruments/facilities
                   100                       •    Maturing transactions issued by the ADI
                                                  itself
                   100                       •    Loss of funding on SPVs, conduits and
                                                  structured investment vehicles due to
                                                  inability to refinance maturing debt,
                                                  embedded options and other potential loss
                                                  of funding
                                        Increased liquidity needs related to derivatives
                                        and other transactions
                   100                       •    Derivatives cash outflows5
                   100                       •    Collateral that would need to be posted as
                                                  a result of a downgrade of 3-notches of the
                                                  ADI



5   Expected derivative amounts payable and receivable are taken into account on a net basis by
    counterparty, only where a valid master netting agreement exists. Amounts must also be net of
    HQLA1 and HQLA2 collateral, to the extent that this collateral is not already counted in the stock
    of HQLA, in line with the principle in paragraph 31 of this Attachment that items cannot be double
    counted in the LCR. An ADI may net payments that are subject to industry wide netting
    agreements subject to approval from APRA. Cash flows arising from FX derivative transactions
    that involve a full exchange of principal amounts on a simultaneous basis (or within the same day)
    may be reflected as a net payable or receivable figure, even where those transactions are not
    covered by a master netting agreement.


                                                                       APS 210 Attachment A - 27

                          Authorised Version F2025L00653 registered 06/06/2025
                                                                                             July 2025




          Run-off rate (%)                               Cash outflow category
                                       Increased liquidity needs related to derivatives
                                       and other transactions (continued)
                  100                       •    Excess non-segregated collateral held by
                                                 the ADI that could contractually be called
                                                 at any time by the counterparty
                  100                       •    Contractually required collateral on
                                                 transactions for which the counterparty has
                                                 not yet demanded the collateral be posted
                  100                       •    Contracts that allow collateral substitution
                                                 to non-HQLA– the amount of HQLA that
                                                 may be substituted without the ADI’s
                                                 consent
          100 per cent of the               •    Collateral outflows due to market
       largest absolute net 30-                  valuation changes on derivative
          day collateral flow                    transactions and other transactions
        realised in the past 24
               months6
                   20                       •    Valuation changes on posted non-HQLA1
                                                 collateral securing derivatives and other
                                                 transactions
                                       Committed facilities

                                            •    For the undrawn portion of committed
                                                 credit and liquidity facilities:
                   5                                  o to retail and SME customers
                                                      o to non-financial corporate,
                                                        sovereigns and central banks,
                                                        PSEs:
                   10                                            ▪    credit facilities
                   30                                            ▪    liquidity facilities
                • 40                                  o to banks and other ADIs subject to
                                                        prudential supervision




6   An ADI may, in certain circumstances, apply to APRA for approval to use an alternative method
    to calculate collateral outflows due to market valuation changes on derivative transactions.


                                                                      APS 210 Attachment A - 28

                         Authorised Version F2025L00653 registered 06/06/2025
                                                                                      July 2025




  Run-off rate (%)                                Cash outflow category
                                Committed facilities (continued)

                                     •    For the undrawn portion of committed
                                          credit and liquidity facilities:
         •                                     o to other financial institutions:
             40                                           ▪    credit facilities
         100                                              ▪    liquidity facilities
         100                         •    Other legal entity customers
                                Other contingent funding obligations
             5                       •    Revocable credit and liquidity facilities
  Average of actual                  •    Trade finance related obligations
monthly net outflows in
  a recent 12-month
        period
  50 per cent of the                 •    Guarantees and letters of credit other than
   average of actual                      trade finance related obligations
monthly net outflows in
  a recent 12-month
        period
     10 per cent for                 •    Buybacks of domestic Australian debt
 short-term securities                    securities
   and 5 per cent for
  long-term securities
unless otherwise agreed
      with APRA
             5                       •    Non-contractual obligations related to
                                          structured products and managed funds
 To be set by the ADI                •    Issuers with an affiliated dealer or market
    unless APRA                           maker
determines the rate for
       the ADI
 To be set by the ADI                •    Other non-contractual contingent funding
    unless APRA                           obligations
determines the rate for
       the ADI
         100                    Other contractual cash outflows




                                                               APS 210 Attachment A - 29

                  Authorised Version F2025L00653 registered 06/06/2025
                                                                                     July 2025



Cash inflows

54.   When considering its available cash inflows, an ADI must only include
      contractual inflows from outstanding exposures that are fully performing and for
      which it has no reason to expect a default within the 30-day time horizon. Where
      APRA is of the view that an ADI is overly reliant on cash inflows from one or a
      limited number of wholesale counterparties, APRA may set an alternative limit
      on the level of cash inflows that may be included in the LCR in consultation with
      the ADI.

Secured lending, including reverse repos and securities borrowing

55.   An ADI must assume that maturing reverse repurchase or securities borrowing
      agreements secured by HQLA1 will be rolled over and will not give rise to any
      cash inflows (zero per cent). Maturing reverse repurchase or securities
      borrowing agreements secured by other HQLA are to be modelled as cash
      inflows, as outlined in Table 4 below, due to the reduction of funds extended
      against the collateral. Collateralised loans extended to customers for the
      purpose of taking leveraged trading positions are to be modelled with a 50 per
      cent cash inflow from contractual inflows made against non-HQLA1 or non-
      HQLA2.

56.   As an exception to paragraph 55 of this Attachment, if the collateral obtained
      through reverse repo, securities borrowing or collateral swaps, which matures
      within the 30-day horizon, is re-used (i.e. rehypothecated) and is tied up for 30
      days or longer to cover short positions, an ADI must assume that such reverse
      repo or securities borrowing arrangements will be rolled over and will not give
      rise to any cash inflows (zero per cent), reflecting its need to continue to cover
      the short position or to re-purchase the relevant securities.




                                                                     APS 210 Attachment A - 30

                        Authorised Version F2025L00653 registered 06/06/2025
                                                                                             July 2025



      Table 4 – Maturing secured lending inflow rates


            Maturing secured                   Inflow rate                           Inflow rate
            lending backed by                      (%)                                   (%)
                                           (if collateral is not                (if collateral is used
            the following asset           used to cover short                       to cover short
                 category                       positions)                            positions)
        HQLA1                                        0                                  0
        CLF-eligible debt                            0                                  0
        securities, where the
        ADI receiving assets
        has a CLF with the
        RBA subject to the
        ADI’s CLF limit
        HQLA2A                                      15                                  0
        HQLA2B (eligible                            25                                  0
        residential mortgage-
        backed securities)
        Other HQLA2B                                50                                  0
        Margin lending backed                       50                                  0
        by securities that are
        not HQLA1, HQLA2
        or CLF-eligible
        securities
        All other collateral                       100                                  0

Lines of credit

57.   Lines of credit, liquidity facilities and other contingent funding facilities that an
      ADI holds at other institutions for its own purposes receive a zero per cent inflow
      rate.

58.   APRA may allow recognition of access to head office funds via a committed
      funding facility if the ADI is a foreign ADI. In such instances, the head office
      committed funding facility must meet all of the following criteria:

      (a)    the committed funding facility is an irrevocable commitment from the
             branch’s head office and is appropriately documented; and

      (b)    the committed funding facility is quantified.

      This paragraph does not apply to a foreign ADI that is part of a group that also
      has a locally-incorporated banking subsidiary in Australia.



                                                                      APS 210 Attachment A - 31

                         Authorised Version F2025L00653 registered 06/06/2025
                                                                                            July 2025



59.   A foreign ADI may meet up to 50 per cent of its LCR requirement with a head
      office committed funding facility. The remaining liquidity requirement must be
      met with eligible liquid assets as detailed in this Attachment.

Inflows by counterparty

60.   All inflows are to be taken only at the latest possible date, based on the
      contractual rights available to counterparties. Inflows from loans that have no
      specific maturity are not included, with the exception of minimum payments of
      principal, fee or interest associated with an open maturity loan.

      Retail and SME inflows

61.   An ADI is assumed to receive all fully performing contractual inflows from retail
      and SME7 customers. At the same time, however, an ADI is assumed to continue
      to extend loans to retail and SME customers, at a rate of 50 per cent of contractual
      inflows. This results in a net inflow rate of 50 per cent of the contractual amount.

      Other wholesale inflows

62.   An ADI is assumed to receive all fully performing contractual wholesale cash
      inflows. In addition, an ADI is assumed to continue to extend loans to wholesale
      clients, at a rate of zero per cent of inflows for financial institutions and central
      banks, and 50 per cent for all others, including non-financial corporates,
      sovereigns, PSEs and MDBs. This will result in an inflow rate of:

      (a)    100 per cent from financial institution and central bank counterparties; and

      (b)    50 per cent for other entities.

      Inflows from maturing securities not included in the stock of HQLA receive an
      inflow rate of 100 per cent.

      Operational deposits

63.   A zero per cent inflow rate applies to deposits held at other financial institutions
      for operational purposes.

64.   Likewise, the depositing ADI must not count any inflow for deposits held at the
      centralised institution in a cooperative banking network, which are assumed to
      stay at the centralised institution. These funds will receive a zero per cent inflow
      rate.




7     Where the definition for an SME customer in paragraph 46 of this Attachment cannot be applied
      due to the absence of liability products, the definition in paragraph 40 of Prudential Standard APS
      113 Capital Adequacy: Internal Ratings-based Approach to Credit Risk can be used instead.


                                                                         APS 210 Attachment A - 32

                            Authorised Version F2025L00653 registered 06/06/2025
                                                                                         July 2025



Other cash inflows

      Derivatives cash inflows8

65.   These derivative items receive an inflow rate of 100 per cent.

      Other contractual cash inflows

66.   Other contractual cash inflows receive an inflow rate of 100 per cent. Cash
      inflows related to non-financial revenues are not taken into account in the
      calculation of the net cash outflows for the purposes of the LCR.




8     The treatment in footnote 5 also applies here.


                                                                         APS 210 Attachment A - 33

                            Authorised Version F2025L00653 registered 06/06/2025
                                                                                     July 2025



Attachment B
Minimum liquidity holdings approach
1.   For the purpose of this Attachment, liabilities are defined as total on-balance sheet
     liabilities and irrevocable commitments, except where approved for a prudential
     purpose by APRA.

2.   For the purpose of the MLH requirement, liquid assets are included at market
     value. These assets must be free from encumbrances except where approved for
     a prudential purpose by APRA, and include:

     (a)   notes and coin and settlement funds;

     (b)   Commonwealth Government and semi-government securities;

     (c)   debt securities guaranteed by the Australian Government, or foreign
           sovereign governments;

     (d)   debt securities issued by supranationals and foreign governments;

     (e)   bank bills, certificates of deposits (CDs) and debt securities issued by ADIs;

     (f)   deposits (at call and any other deposits readily convertible into cash within
           two business days) held with other ADIs net of placements by other ADIs;
           and

     (g)   any other securities approved by APRA.

3.   All debt securities must be eligible for repurchase agreement with the RBA and
     must not be subordinated.

4.   An MLH ADI must ensure it has the operational capacity to liquidate any
     securities held as liquid assets within two business days.

5.   In order to ensure that the MLH requirement is not breached, absent a situation
     of financial stress, an ADI must set a trigger ratio above its MLH requirement and
     must ensure that it manages its liquidity in accordance with its trigger ratio.

6.   An ADI must inform APRA immediately when it becomes aware that its liquid
     assets may fall below its MLH requirement and advise APRA of the remedial
     action taken or planned to restore its liquidity position above its MLH
     requirement.




                                                                     APS 210 Attachment B - 34

                        Authorised Version F2025L00653 registered 06/06/2025
                                                                                           July 2025



Attachment C
Net stable funding ratio
1.   The objective of the NSFR is to reduce the funding risk of an ADI over a one-
     year time horizon by requiring an ADI to fund its activities with sufficiently stable
     sources of funding in order to mitigate the risk of future funding stress.

2.   The NSFR has two components:

     (a)    available stable funding (ASF); and

     (b)    required stable funding (RSF).

3.   The NSFR is calculated as:

      Available stable funding
      Required stable funding

4.   An ADI must maintain an appropriate buffer above its required NSFR under this
     Prudential Standard, in line with its liquidity risk tolerance, at all times.

5.   For the purposes of this Attachment, the meanings and definitions in Attachment
     A apply unless otherwise indicated.

Available stable funding (ASF)

6.   ASF is the portion of capital and liabilities expected to be reliably provided over
     a one-year time horizon, and is measured based on the broad characteristics of the
     relative stability of an ADI’s funding sources, including the contractual maturity
     of its liabilities and the differences in propensity of different types of funding
     providers to withdraw their funds.

7.   An ADI must calculate its ASF as follows:

     (a)    assign the carrying value9 of the ADI’s capital and liabilities to the relevant
            ASF category (refer to paragraphs 11 to 15 of this Attachment);

     (b)    multiply the amount assigned to each liability category by the
            corresponding ASF factor to obtain a weighted amount; and

     (c)    sum the weighted amounts.

Maturity of funding

8.   In order to determine the maturity of a funding instrument with an option or a
     deposit with a withdrawal notice period, an ADI must, for the purposes of the

9    The carrying value represents the amount of a liability or equity instrument before application of
     any regulatory deductions, filters or other adjustments.

                                                                        APS 210 Attachment C - 35


                           Authorised Version F2025L00653 registered 06/06/2025
                                                                                              July 2025


      NSFR, assume the maturity date as being the earliest date at which the funds may
      be redeemed. For long-dated liabilities, only that portion of cash flows falling on
      or after the six-month and one-year time horizons may be treated as having an
      effective residual maturity of six months or more and one year or more,
      respectively.

Calculation of derivative liability amounts

9.    An ADI must calculate its derivative liabilities based on the replacement cost for
      derivative contracts (obtained by marking-to-market) where the contract has a
      negative value. When an eligible bilateral netting contract is in place that meets
      the conditions specified in paragraphs 9 to 11 of Attachment H of APS 112 and
      paragraphs 8 and 9 of the annex of the Basel III leverage ratio framework and
      disclosure requirements,10 the replacement cost for the set of derivative exposures
      covered by the contract will be the net replacement cost.

10.   In calculating NSFR derivative liabilities, an ADI must deduct any collateral
      posted in the form of variation margin in connection with derivative contracts,
      regardless of the asset type, from the negative replacement cost amount.11,12

Liabilities and capital receiving a 100 per cent ASF factor

11.   The following liabilities and capital instruments must be assigned a 100 per cent
      ASF factor:
      (a)    the total amount of regulatory capital, before the application of regulatory
             adjustments, as defined in Prudential Standard APS 111 Capital Adequacy:
             Measurement of Capital (APS 111), excluding the proportion of Tier 2
             instruments with a residual maturity of less than one year;

      (b)    the total amount of any capital instrument not included in paragraph 11(a)
             that has an effective residual maturity of one year or more, but excluding
             any instruments with explicit or embedded options that, if exercised, would
             reduce the expected maturity to less than one year; and

      (c)    the total amount of secured and unsecured borrowings and liabilities,
             including term deposits with an effective residual maturity of one year or
             more. Cash flows due in less than one year that arise from liabilities with a
             final maturity greater than one year are not eligible for the 100 per cent ASF
             factor.




10    Refer to Basel III leverage ratio framework and disclosure requirements, January 2014, Basel
      Committee on Banking Supervision as it exists at 12 January 2014.
11    NSFR derivative liabilities = (derivative liabilities) – (total collateral posted as variation margin
      on derivative liabilities).
12    When determining its RSF, an ADI must not include an asset on its balance sheet associated with
      collateral posted as variation margin where the asset is deducted from the replacement cost amount
      of a derivative contract for the purposes of the NSFR.

                                                                          APS 210 Attachment C - 36


                             Authorised Version F2025L00653 registered 06/06/2025
                                                                                            July 2025


Liabilities receiving a 95 per cent ASF factor

12.   The following liabilities must be assigned a 95 per cent ASF factor:

      (a)   liabilities classified as stable13 demand deposits and term deposits with a
            residual maturity of less than one year provided by retail and SME
            customers;14 and

      (b)   intermediated deposits that meet the requirements of paragraph 35 of
            Attachment A for treatment as stable retail deposits and where the
            intermediary cannot replace the ADI unless it provides at least 12-months’
            notice.

Liabilities receiving a 90 per cent ASF factor

13.   The following liabilities must be assigned a 90 per cent ASF factor:

      (a)   liabilities classified as less stable15 demand deposits and term deposits with
            a residual maturity of less than one year provided by retail and SME
            customers; and

      (b)   intermediated deposits, including member-directed superannuation
            deposits, that meet the requirements of paragraph 35 of Attachment A for
            treatment as less stable retail deposits and where the intermediary cannot
            replace the ADI unless it provides at least 12-months’ notice.

Liabilities receiving a 50 per cent ASF factor

14.   The following liabilities must be assigned a 50 per cent ASF factor:

      (a)   secured and unsecured funding with a residual maturity of less than one
            year provided by non-financial corporate customers;

      (b)   operational deposits;16

      (c)   superannuation fund deposits that meet the definition of operational
            deposits;17

      (d)   intermediated deposits, including member-directed superannuation
            deposits, that meet the requirements of paragraph 35 of Attachment A and
            where the intermediary cannot replace the ADI unless it provides at least
            six months’ notice;

      (e)   funding with a residual maturity of less than one year from sovereigns,
            PSEs and MDBs and national development banks; and


13    Refer to paragraph 37 of Attachment A.
14    Refer to paragraph 34 of Attachment A. Also refer to paragraph 46 and footnote 9 of
      Attachment A for the definition of SME.
15    Refer to paragraph 38 of Attachment A.
16    Refer to paragraphs 47 to 50 of Attachment A.
17    Refer to footnote 16.

                                                                        APS 210 Attachment C - 37


                           Authorised Version F2025L00653 registered 06/06/2025
                                                                                            July 2025


      (f)    other funding, secured and unsecured, not included in the categories above
             with a residual maturity of between six months to less than one year,
             including funding from central banks and financial institutions.

Liabilities receiving a zero per cent ASF factor

15.   The following liabilities must be assigned a zero per cent ASF factor:

      (a)    all other liabilities and equity categories not included in paragraphs 11 to
             14 of this Attachment, including other funding with a residual maturity of
             less than six months from central banks and financial institutions;18

      (b)    other liabilities without a stated maturity including short positions and open
             maturity positions, except for:

             (i)    deferred tax liabilities, which must be treated according to the nearest
                    possible date on which such liabilities could be realised; and

             (ii)   minority interests, which must be treated according to the term of
                    the instrument, usually in perpetuity.

             These liabilities are assigned a 100 per cent ASF factor if the effective
             maturity is one year or greater, or 50 per cent, if the effective maturity is
             between six months and less than one year;

      (c)    if NSFR derivative liabilities are greater than NSFR derivative assets, then
             NSFR derivative liabilities calculated in accordance with paragraphs 9 and
             10 of this Attachment net of NSFR derivative assets as calculated in
             accordance with paragraphs 27 and 28 of this Attachment;19 and

      (d)    trade date payables arising from the purchase of financial instruments,
             foreign currencies and commodities that (i) are expected to settle within the
             standard settlement cycle or period that is customary for the relevant
             exchange or type of transaction or (ii) have failed to, but are still expected
             to, settle.




18    Subject to APRA’s approval, deposits between ADIs within the same cooperative network may
      be excluded from liabilities receiving a zero per cent ASF provided they are either (a) required
      by law to be placed at the central organisation and are legally constrained within the cooperative
      network as minimum deposit requirements; or (b) in the context of common task sharing and
      legal, statutory or contractual arrangements, so long as the ADI that has received the monies and
      the ADI that has deposited participate in the same institutional network’s mutual protection
      scheme against illiquidity and insolvency of its members. Such deposits may be assigned an
      ASF up to the RSF factor assigned by regulation for the same deposits to the depositing bank,
      not to exceed 85 per cent.
19    ASF = 0 per cent x MAX ((NSFR derivative liabilities – NSFR derivative assets), 0).


                                                                         APS 210 Attachment C - 38


                            Authorised Version F2025L00653 registered 06/06/2025
                                                                                            July 2025


Required stable funding (RSF)

16.   RSF is the minimum amount of stable funding an ADI is required to hold and is
      a function of the liquidity characteristics and residual maturities of the various
      assets held by an ADI including off-balance sheet (OBS) exposures.

17.   An ADI must calculate its RSF as follows:

      (a)    assign the ADI’s assets, at carrying value, and OBS exposures to the
             relevant RSF category (refer to paragraphs 29 to 37 of this Attachment);

      (b)    multiply the amount assigned to each asset category and OBS exposure (or
             potential liquidity exposure) by the corresponding RSF factor; and

      (c)    sum the weighted amounts.20

18.   An ADI must allocate assets to the appropriate RSF factor based on the asset’s
      residual maturity or liquidity value as detailed in this attachment.

19.   For the purposes of determining its RSF, an ADI must include financial
      instruments, foreign currencies and commodities for which a purchase order has
      been executed. An ADI may exclude financial instruments, foreign currencies
      and commodities for which a sales order has been executed, even if such
      transactions are not reflected in the ADI’s balance sheet under a settlement-date
      accounting model provided that (i) such transactions are not reflected as
      derivatives or secured financing transactions on the ADI’s balance sheet and (ii)
      the effects of such transactions will be reflected in the ADI’s balance sheet when
      settled.

Maturity of assets

20.   To determine the maturity of an asset, an ADI must, for the purposes of the NSFR,
      assume the maturity date as being the latest possible date at which the asset may
      mature. An ADI must assume that for an asset with an option to extend maturity,
      the option will be exercised.

21.   Where an asset does not have a defined maturity or the maturity is subject to
      periodic review, an ADI must, for NSFR purposes, classify the asset as having a
      residual maturity of greater than or equal to one year and assign the relevant RSF
      factor on this basis.

22.   For an amortising loan, or a loan with minimum contractual payments, that
      portion that falls due within the one-year time horizon may be included in the less
      than one year residual maturity category.


20    For the purposes of calculating the NSFR, HQLA is defined as all HQLA without regard to LCR
      operational requirements and LCR caps on HQLA2 and HQLA2B that may otherwise limit the
      ability of some HQLA to be included as eligible HQLA in calculation of the LCR. HQLA is
      defined in paragraphs 6 to 29 of Attachment A and operational requirements is defined in
      paragraphs 22 to 29 of Attachment A. For the purposes of calculating the NSFR, assets include
      20 per cent of derivative liabilities calculated in accordance with paragraph 9 of this Attachment.

                                                                         APS 210 Attachment C - 39


                            Authorised Version F2025L00653 registered 06/06/2025
                                                                                         July 2025


Encumbered assets

23.   Assets on an ADI’s balance sheet that are encumbered21 for one year or more
      must be assigned a 100 per cent RSF factor. Assets encumbered for a period of
      between six months and less than one year that would, if unencumbered, receive
      an RSF factor lower than or equal to 50 per cent must be assigned a 50 per cent
      RSF factor. Assets encumbered for between six months and less than one year
      that would, if unencumbered, receive an RSF factor higher than 50 per cent must
      be assigned the higher RSF factor. Where assets have less than six months
      remaining in the encumbrance period, the same RSF factor is applied as that for
      an equivalent asset that is unencumbered.

24.   Where an asset is encumbered for exceptional22 central bank liquidity operations,
      the asset may be given a lower RSF factor if approval is sought from APRA and
      APRA agrees to the lower RSF factor.

Secured financing transactions

25.   For the purposes of determining its NSFR, an ADI must exclude from its assets
      amount, securities borrowed in securities financing transactions (for example,
      reverse repos and collateral swaps) where the ADI does not retain beneficial
      ownership of the securities. Conversely, an ADI must include securities lent in
      securities financing transactions where the ADI retains beneficial ownership. An
      ADI must not include securities received through collateral swaps if those
      securities do not appear on the ADI’s balance sheet. If an ADI has encumbered
      securities in repos or other securities financing transactions, but retains beneficial
      ownership and the assets remain on the ADI’s balance sheet, the ADI must
      allocate the security to the appropriate RSF category.

26.   An ADI may net securities financing transactions with a single counterparty when
      calculating its NSFR, provided that the netting conditions set out in paragraph 38
      of Attachment D of Prudential Standard APS 110 Capital Adequacy (APS 110)
      are met.

Calculation of derivative asset amounts

27.   An ADI must calculate the value of derivative assets based on the replacement
      cost for derivative contracts (obtained by marking-to-market) where the contract
      has a positive value. When an eligible bilateral netting agreement is in place that
      meets the conditions in paragraphs 9 to 11 of Attachment H of APS 112 and
      paragraphs 8 and 9 of the annex of the Basel III leverage ratio framework and
      disclosure requirements,23 the replacement cost for the set of derivative exposures
      covered by the contract must be calculated as the net replacement cost.


21    Encumbered assets include but are not limited to assets backing securities or covered bonds and
      assets pledged in securities financing transactions or collateral swaps.
22    In general, exceptional central bank liquidity operations are considered to be non-standard,
      temporary operations conducted by a central bank in order to achieve its mandate in a period of
      market-wide financial stress and/or exceptional macroeconomic circumstances.
23    Basel III leverage ratio framework and disclosure requirements, January 2014, Basel Committee
      on Banking Supervision as it exists at 12 January 2014.

                                                                        APS 210 Attachment C - 40


                           Authorised Version F2025L00653 registered 06/06/2025
                                                                                            July 2025


28.   When calculating NSFR derivative assets, collateral received in connection with
      derivative contracts must not offset the positive replacement cost amount,
      regardless of whether or not netting is permitted under an ADI’s operational
      accounting or risk-based framework, unless it is received in the form of a cash
      variation margin and meets the conditions specified in paragraph 23 of
      Attachment D to APS 110 and is in the same currency as the currency of
      settlement24 of the derivative contract. Any remaining balance sheet liability
      associated with variation margin received that does not meet the criteria above or
      initial margin received must not offset derivative assets and must be assigned a
      zero per cent ASF factor.

Assets assigned a zero per cent RSF factor

29.   An ADI must assign a zero per cent RSF factor to the following assets:

      (a)    notes and coins immediately available to meet obligations;

      (b)    central bank reserves and balances;25

      (c)    all claims on central banks with a residual maturity of less than six months;
             and

      (d)    trade date receivables arising from the sale of financial instruments, foreign
             currencies and commodities that (i) are expected to settle within the
             standard settlement cycle or period for the relevant exchange or type of
             transaction or (ii) have failed to, but are still expected to, settle.

Assets assigned a five per cent RSF factor

30.   An ADI must assign a five per cent RSF factor to the following assets. They
      include unencumbered HQLA1 assets, but exclude assets receiving a zero per
      cent RSF factor as specified in paragraph 29 of this Attachment:

      (a)    marketable securities representing claims on or claims guaranteed by
             sovereigns, central banks, PSEs, the BIS, the IMF, the ECB and EU or
             MDBs and that are assigned a zero per cent risk weight under Attachment
             B of APS 112; and

      (b)    certain non-zero per cent risk-weighted sovereign or central bank debt
             securities as specified in paragraphs 9(d) and (e) of Attachment A.

Assets assigned a 10 per cent RSF factor

31.   An ADI must assign a 10 per cent RSF factor to unencumbered loans to financial
      institutions with a residual maturity of less than six months, where the loan is

24    Refer to question 2.1 of Basel III leverage ratio framework and disclosure requirements, January
      2014, Basel Committee on Banking Supervision as it exists at 12 January 2014.
25    APRA may impose a higher RSF factor after discussing and agreeing with the relevant central
      bank and taking into consideration whether the reserve requirement must be satisfied at all times
      and the extent to which the reserve requirement in a particular jurisdiction exists over a longer-
      term horizon and therefore requires associated stable funding.

                                                                         APS 210 Attachment C - 41


                            Authorised Version F2025L00653 registered 06/06/2025
                                                                                      July 2025


      secured against HQLA1 assets as defined in paragraph 9 of Attachment A,
      provided the ADI has the ability to freely rehypothecate the received collateral
      for the life of the loan.

32.   An ADI may assign an RSF factor of 10 per cent to:

      (a)   CLF-eligible third-party debt securities, other jurisdictions’ ALA and assets
            recognised as eligible liquid assets by a host supervisor that APRA allows
            to be included in the numerator of the LCR. The 10 per cent RSF factor
            may only be applied to the lower of the carrying value of the assets and the
            amount of the CLF that may be included in the numerator of the ADI’s LCR
            as allowed for under this Prudential Standard; and

      (b)   self-securitised assets, eligible as CLF collateral. The maximum amount
            eligible for the 10 per cent RSF factor is the ADI’s CLF less eligible third-
            party debt securities held as collateral for the CLF.

Assets assigned a 15 per cent RSF factor

33.   An ADI must assign a 15 per cent RSF factor to the following assets:

      (a)   unencumbered HQLA2A assets as defined in paragraph 10 of Attachment
            A; and

      (b)   all other unencumbered loans to financial institutions with a residual
            maturity of less than six months not included in paragraph 31 of this
            Attachment.

Assets assigned a 50 per cent RSF factor

34.   An ADI must assign a 50 per cent RSF factor to the following assets:

      (a)   unencumbered HQLA2B assets as defined in paragraph 12 of Attachment
            A;

      (b)   any HQLA as defined in Attachment A that are encumbered for a period of
            between six months and less than one year;

      (c)   all loans to financial institutions and central banks with a residual maturity
            of between six months and less than one year;

      (d)   operational deposits held at other ADIs that are subject to a 50 per cent ASF
            factor in paragraph 14(b) of this Attachment;

      (e)   Australian equities, other than financial institutions or associated entities
            (as defined in section 50AAA of the Corporations Act 2001), that trade on
            the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX) and form part of the
            S&P/ASX200 stock index; and

      (f)   all other non-HQLA not included in the above categories that have a
            residual maturity of less than one year, including loans to non-financial


                                                                      APS 210 Attachment C - 42


                         Authorised Version F2025L00653 registered 06/06/2025
                                                                                        July 2025


            corporate clients, loans to retail customers (i.e. natural persons) and SME
            customers and loans to sovereigns and PSEs.

Assets assigned a 65 per cent RSF factor

35.   An ADI must assign a 65 per cent RSF factor to the following assets:

      (a)   unencumbered standard residential property loans to an individual (that is,
            a natural person) or individuals with a residual maturity of one year or more
            and a loan-to-valuation ratio of 80 per cent or below, as defined under APS
            112; and

      (b)   other unencumbered loans not included in the above categories, excluding
            loans to financial institutions, with a residual maturity of one year or more
            that are subject to or would qualify for a 35 per cent or lower risk weight
            under APS 112.

Assets assigned an 85 per cent RSF factor

36.   An ADI must assign an 85 per cent RSF factor to the following assets:

      (a)   cash, securities or other assets, whether on- or off-balance sheet, posted as
            an initial margin for derivative contracts and cash or other assets provided
            to contribute to the default fund of a central counterparty (CCP).26 Where
            securities or other assets posted as an initial margin for derivative contracts
            would otherwise receive a higher RSF factor, they must be assigned the
            higher factor;

      (b)   other unencumbered performing loans that do not qualify under paragraph
            35 of this Attachment that have residual maturities of one year or more,
            excluding loans to financial institutions; 27

      (c)   unencumbered securities with a remaining maturity of one year or more and
            exchange-traded equities, that are not in default and do not qualify as
            HQLA; and

      (d)   physical traded commodities, including gold.

Assets assigned a 100 per cent RSF factor

37.   An ADI must assign a 100 per cent RSF factor to the following assets:

      (a)   all assets that are encumbered for a period of one year or more;28

      (b)   NSFR derivative assets calculated in accordance with paragraphs 27 and 28
            of this Attachment net of NSFR derivative liabilities calculated in
26    An initial margin posted on behalf of a customer, where an ADI does not guarantee performance
      of the third party, is exempt from this requirement.
27    Whether a loan is performing or non-performing is determined by reference to Prudential
      Standard APS 220 Credit Risk Management.
28    For a non-maturity reverse repo, an RSF of 100 per cent applies, unless an ADI is able to
      demonstrate to APRA’s satisfaction that it would effectively have a different maturity period.

                                                                        APS 210 Attachment C - 43


                           Authorised Version F2025L00653 registered 06/06/2025
                                                                                        July 2025


            accordance with paragraphs 9 and 10 of this Attachment, if NSFR
            derivative assets are greater than NSFR derivative liabilities;29

      (c)   all other assets not included in the above categories, including non-
            performing loans, loans to financial institutions with a residual maturity of
            one year or more, non-exchange-traded equities, fixed assets, items
            deducted from regulatory capital (as defined in APS 111), retained interest,
            insurance assets, subsidiary interests and defaulted securities; and

      (d)   20 per cent of derivative liabilities (i.e. negative replacement cost amounts)
            as calculated according to paragraph 9 of this Attachment (before deducting
            any variation margin posted).

Interdependent assets and liabilities

38.   APRA may determine that certain asset and liability items, on the basis of
      contractual arrangements, are interdependent such that the liability cannot fall due
      while the asset remains on the balance sheet, the principal payment flows from
      the asset cannot be used other than for repaying the liability, and the liability
      cannot be used to fund other assets.

39.   For the purposes of paragraph 38, APRA will only make a determination, on a
      case-by-case basis, in exceptional circumstances. As part of any determination,
      an ADI must, at a minimum, be able to demonstrate that the criteria in paragraph
      40 are met in full.

40.   If APRA determines asset and liability items to be interdependent in accordance
      with paragraph 38 of this Attachment then APRA may, at its discretion, adjust
      the RSF and ASF factors relating to those asset and liability items to zero per
      cent, subject to the following criteria:

      (a)   the individual interdependent asset and liability items are clearly
            identifiable;

      (b)   the maturity and principal amount of both the liability and its
            interdependent asset are the same;

      (c)   the ADI is acting solely as a pass-through unit to channel the funding
            received (the interdependent liability) into the corresponding
            interdependent asset; and

      (d)   the counterparties for each pair of interdependent liabilities and assets are
            not the same.




29    RSF = 100 per cent x MAX ((NSFR derivative assets – NSFR derivative liabilities), 0).

                                                                        APS 210 Attachment C - 44


                           Authorised Version F2025L00653 registered 06/06/2025
                                                                                     July 2025


Off-balance sheet exposures

41.   An ADI must apply the RSF factor to the RSF category in Table 1 for the OBS
      exposure categories in the Table.

      Table 1 – OBS exposure categories

         RSF factor (%)                               RSF category
               5              Irrevocable and conditionally revocable credit and
                              liquidity facilities to any client
                1             Unconditionally revocable credit and liquidity facilities

42.   An ADI must apply an RSF factor of 100 per cent to trade finance-related
      obligations and guarantees and letters of credit unrelated to trade finance
      obligations using the actual net outflows for these obligations in the most recent
      12-month period.




                                                                     APS 210 Attachment C - 45


                        Authorised Version F2025L00653 registered 06/06/2025
