SOURCE: https://www.legislation.gov.au/F2024L01319/asmade/2024-10-17/text/original/pdf
FINAL URL: https://www.legislation.gov.au/F2024L01319/asmade/2024-10-17/text/original/pdf
FETCHED: 2026-10-10

Superannuation (prudential standard)
determination No. 6 of 2024
Prudential Standard SPS 114 Operational Risk Financial
Requirement

Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993


I, Sean Carmody, a delegate of APRA:

(a)   under subsection 34C(6) of the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993
      REVOKE Superannuation (prudential standard) determination No. 1 of 2012,
      including Prudential Standard SPS 114 Operational Risk Financial
      Requirement made under that determination; and

(b)   under subsection 34C(1) of the Act, DETERMINE Prudential Standard SPS
      114 Operational Risk Financial Requirement in the form set out in the
      Schedule, which applies to all RSE licensees.

This instrument commences on 1 July 2025.


Dated: 11 October 2024




Sean Carmody
Executive Director
Policy and Advice Division




Interpretation
In this instrument:
APRA means the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority.
RSE licensee has the meaning given in subsection 10(1) of the Act.




                       Authorised Version F2024L01319 registered 17/10/2024
                                                                                           July 2025



Schedule
Prudential Standard SPS 114 Operational Risk Financial Requirement




Prudential Standard SPS 114
Operational Risk Financial Requirement
    Objectives and key requirements of this Prudential
    Standard

    Prudential Standard SPS 114 Operational Risk Financial Requirement (SPS 114) is
    a prudential standard in the business operations pillar of APRA’s superannuation
    prudential framework. The Operational Risk Financial Requirement (ORFR) requires
    RSE licensees to maintain, manage and utilise, in accordance with this Prudential
    Standard, financial resources to protect beneficiaries from losses due to operational
    risks that relate to the RSEs within its business operations. Key requirements include
    having a documented ORFR strategy, an ORFR target amount and tolerance limit.
    An RSE licensee must maintain ORFR financial resources which must be used in a
    manner consistent with the ORFR and the overarching legislative requirements.


Authority

1.      This Prudential Standard is made under section 34C of the Superannuation
        Industry (Supervision) Act 1993 (SIS Act).

Application and commencement

2.      This Prudential Standard applies to all registrable superannuation entity (RSE)
        licensees (RSE licensees).1

3.      The requirements of this Prudential Standard apply for the purposes of section
        52(8)(b) of the SIS Act.


1       For the purposes of this Prudential Standard, ‘RSE licensee’ has the meaning given in subsection
        10(1) of the SIS Act.


                                                                                         SPS 114 - 1

                             Authorised Version F2024L01319 registered 17/10/2024
                                                                                               July 2025
4.    This Prudential Standard commences on 1 July 2025.

Interpretation

5.    Where this Prudential Standard provides for APRA to exercise a power or
      discretion, the power or discretion is to be exercised in writing.

Adjustments and exclusions

6.    APRA may adjust or exclude a specific requirement in this Prudential Standard
      in relation to:

      (a)    a particular RSE licensee of an RSE; or

      (b)    specified RSE licensees of RSEs.

Previous exercise of discretion

7.    An RSE licensee must contact APRA if it seeks to place reliance, for the purposes
      of complying with this Prudential Standard, on an exercise of discretion by APRA
      made under a previous version of this Prudential Standard.

RSE licensees that are part of a group2

8.    Where an RSE licensee is part of a corporate group, and the RSE licensee utilises
      group policies or functions, the Board must approve the use of group policies and
      functions and must ensure that these policies and functions have appropriate
      regard to the RSE licensee’s business operations.

Operational risk financial requirement

9.    An RSE licensee must maintain, manage and utilise, in accordance with this
      Prudential Standard, financial resources to protect beneficiaries from losses due
      to operational risks3 that relate to the RSEs within its business operations.4

ORFR strategy

10.   An RSE licensee must formulate and give effect to an ORFR strategy that sets
      out how it will meet the ORFR. At a minimum, the ORFR strategy must include
      the RSE licensee’s:

      (a)    ORFR target amount and tolerance limit, including how and why it has
             determined these amounts to be appropriate;

2     For the purposes of this Prudential Standard, a reference to ‘a Group’ is a reference to a group
      comprising the RSE licensee and all connected entities of the RSE licensee. ‘Connected entity’
      has the meaning given in subsection 10(1) of the SIS Act.
3     Refer to Prudential Standard CPS 230 Operational Risk Management for a description of
      operational risks at paragraphs 13 and 24.
4     For the purposes of this Prudential Standard, an RSE licensee’s business operations includes all
      activities as an RSE licensee (including the activities of each RSE of which it is the licensee), and
      all other activities of the RSE licensee to the extent that they are relevant to, or may impact on, its
      activities as an RSE licensee.


                                                                                             SPS 114 - 2

                             Authorised Version F2024L01319 registered 17/10/2024
                                                                                July 2025
      (b)   processes and parameters for determining when and how the ORFR
            financial resources can be used;

      (c)   approach to holding the ORFR financial resources, including how the RSE
            licensee will ensure that the requirements in paragraphs 16 and 17 (as
            applicable) are met on an ongoing basis;

      (d)   investment strategy for operational risk reserves held to meet the ORFR
            target amount;

      (e)   process for implementing a replenishment plan in accordance with
            paragraph 18 (replenishment plan);

      (f)   review process for the ORFR target amount, tolerance limit and ORFR
            strategy; and

      (g)   process for managing the financial resources held to meet the ORFR target
            amount in the event that the RSE licensee or RSE is wound up.

11.   The Board must approve the ORFR strategy and is ultimately accountable for
      ensuring the implementation of the RSE licensee’s ORFR strategy.

ORFR target amount and tolerance limit

12.   For the purposes of paragraph 9, an RSE licensee must determine:

      (a)   a target amount of financial resources (ORFR target amount); and

      (b)   a tolerance limit below the ORFR target amount (tolerance limit). Where
            ORFR financial resources fall below the tolerance limit, the RSE licensee
            must take action to replenish financial resources to meet the ORFR.

13.   An RSE licensee’s ORFR target amount and tolerance limit must be determined
      on a prudent basis that suitably reflects:

      (a)   the RSE licensee’s operational risk profile and risk assessments;

      (b)   the uses of the ORFR financial resources permitted under paragraph 15;
            and

      (c)   the size, business mix and complexity of the RSE licensee’s business
            operations.

14.   If APRA considers that the ORFR target amount and/or tolerance limit set by the
      RSE licensee does not adequately reflect the requirements of this Prudential
      Standard, APRA may require an RSE licensee to:

      (a)   meet an ORFR target amount determined by APRA, within a specified
            time; and/or

      (b)   adopt a tolerance limit determined by APRA.



                                                                               SPS 114 - 3

                        Authorised Version F2024L01319 registered 17/10/2024
                                                                                            July 2025
Use of ORFR financial resources

15.   An RSE licensee must only use ORFR financial resources for one or more of the
      following:

      (a)    to address operational risks that could reasonably be considered to have
             caused or could cause one or more beneficiaries in an RSE within the RSE
             licensee’s business operations to sustain a loss, or to be deprived of a gain
             to which they otherwise would have been entitled;

      (b)    to meet the requirements of Prudential Standard CPS 230 Operational
             Risk Management for the effective management and prevention of
             operational risk incidents, including the remediation of identified material
             weaknesses and maintenance of critical operations within tolerance levels
             through severe disruption; and

      (c)    to reduce a surplus where ORFR financial resources are materially larger
             than the ORFR target amount.

Access to ORFR financial resources

16.   To be eligible to meet the ORFR target amount, any ORFR financial resources
      held as an operational risk reserve within an RSE must:

      (a)    be separately identifiable from member accounts and reserves held in the
             RSE for other purposes; and

      (b)    be unrestricted and readily available to address operational risks in a
             timely manner.5

17.   To be eligible to be used to meet the ORFR target amount, any ORFR financial
      resources held as trustee capital must be held in a form that is equivalent to
      Common Equity Tier 1 Capital.6

Shortfall management

18.   Where the level of ORFR financial resources falls below the tolerance limit, an
      RSE licensee must implement a replenishment plan and replenish the ORFR
      financial resources. Replenishment must occur within a period and in a manner
      the RSE licensee determines will ensure that the RSE licensee acts fairly in




5     Refer also to Prudential Standard SPS 515 Strategic Planning and Member Outcomes for
      requirements relating to the prudent management of reserves.
6     Prudential Standard APS 111 Capital Adequacy: Measurement of Capital states that Common
      Equity Tier 1 Capital comprises the highest quality components of capital that fully satisfy all of
      the following characteristics: (a) provide a permanent and unrestricted commitment of funds; (b)
      are freely available to absorb losses; (c) do not impose any unavoidable servicing charge against
      earnings; and (d) rank behind the claims of depositors and other creditors in the event of winding-
      up of the issuer.


                                                                                          SPS 114 - 4

                            Authorised Version F2024L01319 registered 17/10/2024
                                                                                        July 2025
      dealing with beneficiaries and minimises the risk of adverse outcomes for
      beneficiaries.7 The replenishment plan must, at a minimum, explain:

      (a)   how the shortfall has arisen;

      (b)   the amounts that apply in relation to each RSE;

      (c)   how the RSE licensee will replenish the ORFR financial resources,
            including the source of funding; and

      (d)   the expected date for the RSE licensee to again meet the ORFR target
            amount.

19.   An RSE licensee’s replenishment plan must be approved by the Board prior to
      implementation.

20.   APRA may require an RSE licensee to revise its replenishment plan if APRA
      considers that the plan does not comply with the RSE licensee’s duties and
      obligations.

Review and audit

21.   An RSE licensee must review the appropriateness of its ORFR target amount and
      tolerance limit at least annually and following a material operational risk incident
      or material change to the RSE licensee’s business operations. The findings of the
      review must be reported to the Board.

22.   An RSE licensee must implement satisfactory internal audit procedures and
      external audit arrangements to ensure compliance with, and the adequacy and
      effectiveness of, the ORFR strategy.8

23.   APRA may require the appointment of an external expert to provide an
      assessment of, and report on, the adequacy and effectiveness of, the RSE
      licensee’s approach to meeting the requirements of this Prudential Standard. The
      report must be paid for by the RSE licensee and must be made available to APRA,
      together with the Board’s preliminary response within 30 business days after it
      has been provided to the RSE licensee.

Notification requirement

24.   An RSE licensee must notify APRA prior to making a material change to the
      ORFR target amount.




7     For the purposes of this Prudential Standard, a reference to ‘beneficiaries’ is a reference to
      ‘beneficiaries of an RSE within the RSE licensee’s business operations’.
8     Refer to Prudential Standard SPS 310 Audit and Related Matters and Prudential Standard SPS
      510 Governance for requirements relating to external and internal audits respectively.


                                                                                      SPS 114 - 5

                           Authorised Version F2024L01319 registered 17/10/2024
