SOURCE: https://www.legislation.gov.au/F2024L01518/asmade/2024-11-28/text/original/pdf
FINAL URL: https://www.legislation.gov.au/F2024L01518/asmade/2024-11-28/text/original/pdf
FETCHED: 2026-10-08

Banking (prudential standard) determination
No. 6 of 2024
Prudential Standard APS 110 Capital Adequacy

Banking Act 1959

I, Sean Carmody, a delegate of APRA:

(a)    under subsection 11AF(3) of the Banking Act 1959 (the Act) REVOKE Banking
       (prudential standard) determination No. 4 of 2022, including Prudential Standard APS
       110 Capital Adequacy made under that determination; and

(b)    under subsection 11AF(1) of the Act DETERMINE Prudential Standard APS 110
       Capital Adequacy, in the form set out in the schedule, which applies to all ADIs and
       authorised NOHCs to the extent provided in paragraphs 2 to 4 of the prudential
       standard.

This instrument commences on 1 January 2025.

Dated: 27 November 2024




Sean Carmody
Executive Director
Policy and Advice Division


Interpretation
In this instrument:
APRA means the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority.
ADI and authorised NOHC have their respective meanings given in section 5 of the Act.




                             Authorised Version F2024L01518 registered 28/11/2024
Schedule

Prudential Standard APS 110 Capital Adequacy comprises the document commencing on the
following page.




                                                                                Page 2 of 2



                         Authorised Version F2024L01518 registered 28/11/2024
                                                                                  January 2025




Prudential Standard APS 110
Capital Adequacy
Objectives and key requirements of this Prudential
Standard

This Prudential Standard requires an authorised deposit-taking institution (ADI) to
maintain adequate capital, on both a Level 1 and Level 2 basis, to act as a buffer against
the risk associated with its activities.

The ultimate responsibility for the prudent management of capital of an ADI rests with
its Board of directors. The Board must ensure the ADI maintains an appropriate level
and quality of capital commensurate with the type, amount and concentration of risks
to which the ADI is exposed.

The key requirements of this Prudential Standard are that an ADI and any Level 2 group
must:

•     have an Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process;

•     maintain required levels of regulatory capital;

•     operate a capital conservation buffer and a countercyclical capital buffer;

•     inform APRA of any adverse change in actual or anticipated capital adequacy;
      and

•     seek APRA’s approval for any planned capital reductions.




                           Authorised Version F2024L01518 registered 28/11/2024
                                                                                                  January 2025


Table of Contents

Authority............................................................................................................3
Application ........................................................................................................3
Interpretation.....................................................................................................3
Definitions .........................................................................................................3
Adjustments and exclusions .............................................................................4
Previous exercise of discretion .........................................................................4
Responsibility for capital management .............................................................4
Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ..............................................5
Minimum risk-based capital adequacy requirements........................................7
Capital floor.......................................................................................................8
Capital conservation buffer ...............................................................................8
Countercyclical capital buffer ............................................................................9
Minimum dollar amount of capital .....................................................................9
Minimum leverage ratio requirement ..............................................................10
Reductions in capital.......................................................................................10
Notification requirements ................................................................................11
Attachment A – Risk-based regulatory capital ratios ......................................12
Attachment B – Constraints on capital distributions........................................14
Attachment C – Countercyclical capital buffer ................................................16
Attachment D – Leverage ratio .......................................................................18




                                                                                                     APS 110 - 2

                                 Authorised Version F2024L01518 registered 28/11/2024
                                                                              January 2025


Authority
1.   This Prudential Standard is made under section 11AF of the Banking Act 1959
     (Banking Act).

Application
2.   This Prudential Standard applies to all authorised deposit-taking institutions
     (ADIs) with the exception of:

     (a)   foreign ADIs; or

     (b)   purchased payment facility providers.

3.   A reference to an ADI in this Prudential Standard, unless otherwise indicated, is
     a reference to:

     (a)   an ADI on a Level 1 basis; and

     (b)   a group of which an ADI is a member on a Level 2 basis.

4.   If an ADI to which this Prudential Standard applies is:

     (a)   the holding company for a group, the ADI must ensure that the requirements
           in this Prudential Standard are met on a Level 2 basis, where applicable; or

     (b)   a subsidiary of an authorised non-operating holding company
           (authorised NOHC), the authorised NOHC must ensure that the
           requirements in this Prudential Standard are met on a Level 2 basis, where
           applicable.

5.   This Prudential Standard commences on 1 January 2025.

Interpretation
6.   Terms that are defined in Prudential Standard CPS 001 Defined terms appear in
     bold the first time they are used in this Prudential Standard.

7.   Where this Prudential Standard provides for APRA to exercise a power or
     discretion, this power or discretion will be exercised in writing.

8.   In this Prudential Standard, unless the contrary intention appears, a reference to
     an Act, Regulations, Prudential Standard or Australian Accounting Standards
     is a reference to the instrument as in force from time to time.

Definitions
9.   The following definitions are used in this Prudential Standard:

     (a)   IRB ADI – means an ADI which has been approved by APRA to use the
           internal ratings-based (IRB) approach to credit risk;



                                                                               APS 110 - 3

                       Authorised Version F2024L01518 registered 28/11/2024
                                                                                      January 2025


      (b)    standardised ADI – means an ADI which has not been approved by APRA
             to use the internal ratings-based approach to credit risk.

Adjustments and exclusions
10.   APRA may adjust or exclude a specific prudential requirement in this Prudential
      Standard in relation to one or more ADIs or authorised NOHCs.1

Previous exercise of discretion
11.   An ADI must contact APRA if it seeks to place reliance, for the purposes of
      complying with this Prudential Standard, on a previous exemption or other
      exercise of discretion by APRA under a previous version of this Prudential
      Standard.

Responsibility for capital management
12.   The Board of an ADI must ensure that the ADI maintains a level and quality of
      capital commensurate with the type, amount and concentration of risks to which
      the ADI is exposed from its activities.2 In doing so, the Board must have regard
      to any prospective changes in the ADI’s risk profile and capital holdings.

13.   An ADI that is a member of a group may be exposed to risks, including
      reputational and contagion risk, through its association with other members of the
      group. Problems arising in other group members may compromise the financial
      and operational position of the ADI. The Board, in determining the capital
      adequacy of the ADI at Level 1, must have regard to:

      (a)    risks posed to the ADI by other members of the group, including the impact
             on the ability of the ADI to raise funding and additional capital should the
             need arise;

      (b)    obligations, both direct and indirect, arising from the ADI’s association
             with group members that could give rise to a call on the capital of the ADI;
             and

      (c)    the ability to freely transfer capital (including situations where the group is
             under financial or other forms of stress) from members of the group to
             recapitalise the ADI or other members of the group. This includes
             consideration of:

             (i)    the integration of business operations within the group;

             (ii)   the importance of members of the group to the group;

             (iii) the impact of cross-border jurisdictional issues;


1     Refer to subsection 11AF(2) of the Banking Act.
2     Unless otherwise indicated, a reference to the Board of an ADI in this Prudential Standard is also
      a reference, where relevant, to the Board of the entity that heads the Level 2 group.


                                                                                        APS 110 - 4

                            Authorised Version F2024L01518 registered 28/11/2024
                                                                                January 2025


            (iv) differences in legislative and regulatory requirements that may apply
                 to group members; and

            (v)   the impact of taxation and other factors on the ability to realise
                  investments in, or transfer surplus capital from, group members.

Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process
14.   An ADI must have an Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process
      (ICAAP) that must be:

      (a)   adequately documented, with the documentation made available to APRA
            on request; and

      (b)   approved by the ADI’s Board initially, and when significant changes are
            made.

15.   An ADI’s ICAAP must be appropriate to the ADI’s size, business mix and
      complexity of its operations and group structure.

16.   An ADI that is part of a group may rely on the ICAAP of the group provided that
      the Board of the ADI is satisfied that the group ICAAP meets the criteria in
      paragraph 17 of this Prudential Standard in respect of the ADI.

17.   The ICAAP must include at a minimum:

      (a)   adequate policies, procedures, systems, controls and personnel to identify,
            measure, monitor and manage the risks arising from the ADI’s activities on
            a continuous basis, and the capital held against such risks;

      (b)   a strategy for ensuring adequate capital is maintained over time, including
            specific capital targets set out in the context of the ADI’s risk profile, the
            ADI’s risk appetite and Regulatory Capital requirements. This includes
            plans for how target levels of capital are to be met and the means available
            for sourcing additional capital where required;

      (c)   actions and procedures for monitoring the ADI’s compliance with its
            regulatory capital requirements and capital targets. This includes the setting
            of triggers to alert management to, and specified actions to avert and rectify,
            potential breaches of these requirements;

      (d)   stress testing and scenario analysis relating to potential risk exposures and
            available capital resources;

      (e)   processes for reporting on the ICAAP and its outcomes to the Board and
            senior management of the ADI, and for ensuring that the ICAAP is taken
            into account in making business decisions;

      (f)   policies to address the capital impact of material risks not covered by
            explicit regulatory capital requirements; and




                                                                                 APS 110 - 5

                         Authorised Version F2024L01518 registered 28/11/2024
                                                                                January 2025


      (g)   an ICAAP summary statement as defined in paragraph 18 of this Prudential
            Standard.

18.   The ICAAP summary statement is a high-level document that describes and
      summarises the capital assessment and management processes of the ADI. It must
      address the aspects of the ICAAP listed in paragraphs 17(a) to 17(f) of this
      Prudential Standard, and also include:

      (a)   a statement of the objectives of the ICAAP, the expected level of financial
            soundness associated with the capital targets and the time horizon over
            which the ICAAP applies;

      (b)   a description of the key assumptions and methodologies utilised by the ADI
            in its ICAAP, including stress testing and scenario analysis;

      (c)   triggers for reviewing the ICAAP in light of changes to business operations,
            regulatory, economic and financial market conditions, group structure and
            other factors affecting the ADI’s risk profile and capital resources;

      (d)   a summary of the ADI’s policy for reviewing its ICAAP, including who is
            responsible for the review, details of the frequency and scope of the review,
            and mechanisms for reporting on the review and its outcomes to the Board
            and senior management;

      (e)   a description of the basis of measurement of capital used in the ICAAP, and
            an explanation of the differences where this basis differs from that used for
            regulatory capital; and

      (f)   references to supporting documentation and analysis as relevant.

19.   An ADI must ensure that its ICAAP is subject to regular and robust review by
      appropriately qualified persons who are operationally independent of the conduct
      of capital management. The frequency and scope of the review must be
      appropriate to the ADI, having regard to its size, business mix, complexity of its
      operations and group structure, and the nature and extent of any changes that have
      occurred or are likely to occur in its business profile or its risk appetite. A review
      must be conducted at least every three years. The review must be sufficient to
      reach a view on whether the ICAAP is adequate and effective.

20.   An ADI must, on an annual basis, prepare a report on the implementation of its
      ICAAP (ICAAP report). A copy of the ICAAP report must be provided to APRA
      no later than three months from the end of the period covered by that report.

21.   The ICAAP report must include:

      (a)   detailed information on current and three-year projected capital levels
            relative to minimum regulatory capital requirements and target levels;

      (b)   detailed information on the actual outcomes of applying the ICAAP over
            the period, relative to the planned outcomes in the previous ICAAP report
            (including analysis of the ADI’s actual capital position relative to minimum


                                                                                 APS 110 - 6

                         Authorised Version F2024L01518 registered 28/11/2024
                                                                                January 2025


            regulatory capital requirements and capital targets and actual versus
            planned capital management actions);

      (c)   a description of material changes to the ICAAP since the previous ICAAP
            report;

      (d)   detail and outcomes of stress testing and scenario analysis used in
            undertaking the ICAAP;

      (e)   a breakdown of capital usage over the planning horizon, as relevant, by
            material:

            (i)    business activity;

            (ii)   group members;

            (iii) geographic spread of exposures; and

            (iv) risk types;

      (f)   an assessment of anticipated changes in the ADI’s risk profile or capital
            management processes over the planning horizon;

      (g)   details of any review of the ICAAP since the previous ICAAP report,
            including any recommendations for change and how those
            recommendations have been, or are being, addressed; and

      (h)   references to supporting documentation and analysis as relevant.

22.   The ICAAP report submitted to APRA by the ADI must be accompanied by a
      declaration approved by the Board and signed by the CEO stating whether:

      (a)   capital management has been undertaken by the ADI in accordance with
            the ICAAP over the period and, if not, a description of, and explanation for,
            deviations;

      (b)   the ADI has assessed the capital targets contained in its ICAAP to be
            adequate given the size, business mix and complexity of its operations and,
            at Level 2, given the location of operations of group members and the
            complexity of the group structure; and

      (c)   the information included in the ICAAP report is accurate in all material
            respects.

Minimum risk-based capital adequacy requirements
23.   APRA will determine prudential capital requirements (PCRs) for an ADI. The
      PCRs, expressed as a percentage of total risk-weighted assets (RWA), will be set
      by reference to Common Equity Tier 1 Capital, Tier 1 Capital and Total
      Capital. PCRs may be determined at Level 1, Level 2 or both.

24.   The minimum PCRs that an ADI must maintain at all times are:


                                                                                 APS 110 - 7

                         Authorised Version F2024L01518 registered 28/11/2024
                                                                                January 2025


      (a)   a Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio of 4.5 per cent;

      (b)   a Tier 1 Capital ratio of 6.0 per cent; and

      (c)   a Total Capital ratio of 8.0 per cent.

      APRA may determine higher PCRs for an ADI and may change an ADI’s PCRs
      at any time, including to incorporate additional capital required for loss-absorbing
      capacity, or on account of other supervisory review. An ADI must not publicly
      disclose its PCRs.

25.   An ADI must maintain risk-based regulatory capital ratios above its PCRs at all
      times. Risk-based regulatory capital ratios are to be calculated in accordance with
      Attachment A to this Prudential Standard.

Capital floor
26.   An IRB ADI must calculate its total RWA for capital adequacy purposes in
      accordance with paragraph 4 of Attachment A to this Prudential Standard.

Capital conservation buffer
27.   An ADI must hold a capital conservation buffer above its Common Equity Tier 1
      Capital PCR or is otherwise subject to the capital distribution constraints set out
      in paragraph 30 of this Prudential Standard. An ADI must meet its capital
      conservation buffer with Common Equity Tier 1 Capital. The capital conservation
      buffer is:

      (a)   2.5 per cent of total RWA for standardised ADIs. The sum of the Common
            Equity Tier 1 PCR plus the capital conservation buffer will be no less than
            7.0 per cent of the standardised ADI’s total RWA; or

      (b)   3.75 per cent of total RWA for IRB ADIs. The sum of the Common Equity
            Tier 1 PCR plus the capital conservation buffer will be no less than 8.25 per
            cent of the IRB ADI’s total RWA.

      APRA may vary the capital conservation buffer requirement for an ADI or class
      of ADIs.

28.   APRA may determine an ADI to be a domestic systemically important bank. A
      domestic systemically important bank must add an additional 1.0 per cent to its
      capital conservation buffer requirement under paragraph 27 of this Prudential
      Standard.

29.   Any amount of Common Equity Tier 1 Capital required to meet an ADI’s PCR
      for Tier 1 Capital or Total Capital, above the amount required to meet the PCR
      for Common Equity Tier 1 Capital, is not eligible to be included in the capital
      conservation buffer.

30.   Capital distribution constraints apply if an ADI’s Common Equity Tier 1 Capital
      ratio falls within the capital buffer ranges outlined in Table 1 of Attachment B.


                                                                                 APS 110 - 8

                         Authorised Version F2024L01518 registered 28/11/2024
                                                                                     January 2025


      Capital distribution constraints apply to distributions that affect Common Equity
      Tier 1 Capital. Items considered to be distributions for these purposes include:

      (a)    dividends and share buybacks;3

      (b)    discretionary payments on Additional Tier 1 Capital instruments;4 and

      (c)    discretionary bonus payments to staff.5

31.   An ADI may apply to APRA to make payments in excess of the constraints
      imposed by the capital conservation buffer regime. APRA will only grant
      approval where it is satisfied that an ADI has established measures to raise capital
      equal to or greater than the amount above the constraint that it wishes to distribute.

Countercyclical capital buffer
32.   An ADI must hold a countercyclical capital buffer, which must be met with
      Common Equity Tier 1 Capital, to be calculated in accordance with Attachment C
      to this Prudential Standard (ADI-specific countercyclical capital buffer).

33.   APRA will determine the Australian jurisdictional countercyclical capital buffer,
      that applies from time to time, at a level of between 0 and 3.5 per cent of total
      RWA.

34.   APRA will publish any decision to vary the level of the Australian jurisdictional
      countercyclical capital buffer up to 12 months before the date from which it
      applies. Any decision by APRA to reduce the level of the Australian jurisdictional
      countercyclical capital buffer will take effect immediately.

35.   The ADI-specific countercyclical capital buffer is applied by extending the range
      of the capital conservation buffer. Capital distribution constraints, as set out in
      Attachment B to this Prudential Standard, will apply if an ADI’s Common Equity
      Tier 1 Capital ratio falls within the extended capital buffer range (consisting of
      the capital conservation buffer plus the ADI-specific countercyclical capital
      buffer).

Minimum dollar amount of capital
36.   APRA may also determine an ADI’s:




3     This includes all distributions on mutual equity interests which must be treated as dividends for
      the purposes of this Prudential Standard, as required by Prudential Standard APS 111 Capital
      Adequacy: Measurement of Capital.
4     All payments of dividends or interest on eligible Additional Tier 1 Capital instruments are, by
      definition, required to be discretionary.
5     This would include any remuneration payments that are made upon the exercise of a discretionary
      judgement of the Board or senior management of an ADI as to the amount or timing of payment.


                                                                                        APS 110 - 9

                            Authorised Version F2024L01518 registered 28/11/2024
                                                                                       January 2025


      (a)    PCR, set by reference to Common Equity Tier 1 Capital, Tier 1 Capital or
             Total Capital;6

      (b)    capital conservation buffer; or

      (c)    countercyclical capital buffer

      as a minimum dollar amount.

Minimum leverage ratio requirement
37.   An IRB ADI must, at all times, maintain a minimum leverage ratio of 3.5 per
      cent. APRA may vary the minimum leverage ratio requirement for an ADI.

38.   An IRB ADI must calculate its leverage ratio in accordance with Attachment D
      to this Prudential Standard. Where an IRB ADI:

      (a)    is a member of a Level 2 group, the minimum leverage ratio requirement
             will apply only at Level 2; and

      (b)    is not a member of a Level 2 group, the minimum leverage ratio requirement
             will apply at Level 1.

39.   APRA may apply a leverage ratio requirement to a standardised ADI.

Reductions in capital
40.   An ADI or authorised NOHC (as applicable) must obtain APRA’s approval prior
      to making any planned reduction in capital, whether at Level 1 or Level 2.

41.   A planned reduction in an ADI’s capital includes:

      (a)    a share buyback or the redemption, repurchase or repayment of any
             qualifying Common Equity Tier 1 Capital, Additional Tier 1 Capital and
             Tier 2 Capital instruments issued by the ADI (or by other entities included
             in the calculation of the ADI’s Level 2 capital);7

      (b)    trading in the ADI’s own shares or capital instruments outside of any
             arrangement agreed with APRA in accordance with Prudential Standard
             APS 111 Capital Adequacy: Measurement of Capital (APS 111); and

      (c)    the aggregate amount of dividend payments on ordinary shares that exceeds
             an ADI’s statutory after-tax earnings after taking into account any payments
             on more senior capital instruments, in the ADI’s financial year to which
             they relate.8 For this purpose, the ADI’s financial year means a period of 12

6     Any minimum PCR dollar amount determined under this sub-paragraph applies in addition to
      minimum PCRs determined elsewhere under this Prudential Standard.
7     For the avoidance of doubt, this does not include the repayment of a Tier 2 Capital instrument
      upon its contractual maturity date.
8     This includes distributions on mutual equity interests which are also subject to the limits set out
      in Attachment I to APS 111.


                                                                                        APS 110 - 10

                            Authorised Version F2024L01518 registered 28/11/2024
                                                                                January 2025


            consecutive months covered by one or more sets of publicly available
            operating results preceding the date of the proposed payment of dividend
            or interest.

42.   An ADI or authorised NOHC (as applicable) proposing a capital reduction
      (whether at Level 1 or Level 2) must provide APRA with a forecast showing, at
      the respective Levels, the projected future capital position after the proposed
      capital reductions. The forecast should extend for at least two years.

43.   An ADI must satisfy APRA that the ADI’s capital, at Level 1 and Level 2 as
      appropriate, will remain adequate for its future needs after a proposed reduction.

Notification requirements
44.   An ADI or an authorised NOHC (as applicable) must notify APRA of any breach
      or prospective breach of the capital requirements contained in this Prudential
      Standard and inform APRA of any remedial actions taken or planned to deal with
      the breach.

45.   An ADI or an authorised NOHC (as applicable) must inform APRA as soon as
      practicable of any:

      (a)   significant departure from its ICAAP;

      (b)   concerns it has about its capital adequacy (including projected losses),
            whether at Level 1 or Level 2, and the measures it proposes to take to
            address these concerns;

      (c)   indication of significant adverse changes in market pricing of, or trading in,
            the capital instruments of the ADI or group of which it is a member
            (including pressures on the ADI to purchase its own capital instruments);
            or

      (d)   other significant adverse changes in its capital, whether at Level 1 or
            Level 2.




                                                                                APS 110 - 11

                         Authorised Version F2024L01518 registered 28/11/2024
                                                                                    January 2025


Attachment A – Risk-based regulatory capital ratios

1.   An ADI’s Tier 1 Capital is the sum of its Common Equity Tier 1 Capital and
     Additional Tier 1 Capital. Its Total Capital is the sum of Tier 1 Capital and Tier 2
     Capital. The criteria for inclusion in Common Equity Tier 1 Capital, Additional
     Tier 1 Capital and Tier 2 Capital are set out in APS 111.

2.   Under APRA’s risk-based capital adequacy framework, an ADI’s capital
     adequacy is measured by means of risk-based capital ratios calculated by dividing
     each of its Common Equity Tier 1 Capital, Tier 1 Capital and Total Capital by its
     total RWA. That is:

                                                       Common Equity Tier 1 Capital
      Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio =
                                                                     Total RWA

                                                                   Tier 1 Capital
                       Tier 1 Capital ratio =
                                                                     Total RWA

                                                                   Total Capital
                        Total Capital ratio =
                                                                     Total RWA

     Total RWA are calculated in accordance with paragraph 3 or paragraph 4 of this
     Attachment.

3.   Standardised ADIs must calculate total RWA as the sum of:

     (a)   RWA determined in accordance with Prudential Standard APS 112 Capital
           Adequacy: Standardised Approach to Credit Risk (APS 112);

     (b)   RWA determined in accordance with Prudential Standard APS 120
           Securitisation (APS 120); and

     (c)   unless APRA determines otherwise in a particular case, either:

           (i)    for non-significant financial institutions, 10 per cent of the sum of
                  RWA calculated under sub-paragraphs 3(a) and 3(b) of this
                  Attachment as RWA for operational risk; or

           (ii)   for significant financial institutions, risk-weighted credit exposures
                  calculated under Prudential Standard APS 180 Capital Adequacy:
                  Counterparty Credit Risk (APS 180) and 12.5 times the sum of the
                  capital charges determined under Prudential Standard APS 115
                  Capital Adequacy: Standardised Measurement Approach to




                                                                  APS 110 – Attachment A - 12

                        Authorised Version F2024L01518 registered 28/11/2024
                                                                                  January 2025


                  Operational Risk (APS 115), Prudential Standard APS 116 Capital
                  Adequacy: Market Risk (APS 116) and APS 180.9

4.   IRB ADIs must calculate total RWA as the greater of:

     (a)   the sum of:

           (i)    RWA determined in accordance with APS 112 for those asset classes
                  where an IRB ADI is required to use the standardised approach to
                  credit risk, or where APRA has approved partial use;

           (ii)   RWA determined in accordance with Prudential Standard APS 113
                  Capital Adequacy: Internal Ratings-based Approach to Credit Risk
                  (APS 113);

           (iii) RWA determined in accordance with APS 120;

           (iv) risk-weighted credit exposures calculated under APS 180;10 and

           (v)    12.5 times the sum of the capital charges determined under APS 115,
                  APS 116, APS 180 and Prudential Standard APS 117 Capital
                  Adequacy: Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book (APS 117);11 or

     (b)   72.5 per cent of total RWA calculated in accordance with paragraph 3 of
           this Attachment.12

5.   For the purpose of paragraph 4(b) of this Attachment, an IRB ADI may determine
     its market risk capital charge using its internal model approach, rather than the
     standard method set out in APS 116.




9    For risk-weighted credit exposures under APS 180, refer to sub-paragraph 13(a) of APS 180. For
     capital charges under APS 180, refer to sub-paragraphs 13(b) and 13(c) of APS 180.
10   Refer to sub-paragraph 13(a) of APS 180.
11   Refer to sub-paragraphs 13(b) and 13(c) of APS 180.
12   For the avoidance of doubt, an IRB ADI in this calculation must determine all credit RWA in
     accordance with APS 112, APS 120 and APS 180 only, and the capital charge for market risk as
     the sum of the capital charges for traded market risk, foreign exchange and commodities (TFC)
     calculated under the standard method in accordance with APS 116.


                                                                    APS 110 – Attachment A - 13

                          Authorised Version F2024L01518 registered 28/11/2024
                                                                                 January 2025


Attachment B – Constraints on capital distributions

1.    Capital distribution constraints apply when an ADI’s Common Equity Tier 1
      Capital ratio is within the capital buffer (CB) range (consisting of the capital
      conservation buffer plus any countercyclical capital buffer). The CB range is
      divided into four quartiles for the purposes of determining the minimum capital
      conservation ratios, as set out in Table 1.

Table 1: Minimum capital conservation ratios

 Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio                              Minimum capital conservation
                                                                 ratios (expressed as a percentage
                                                                 of earnings)

 Within first quartile of buffer

 PCR to ≤ (PCR + 0.25CB)                                                        100

 Within second quartile of buffer

 > (PCR + 0.25CB) to ≤ (PCR + 0.50CB)                                           80

 Within third quartile of buffer

 > (PCR + 0.50CB) to ≤ (PCR + 0.75CB)                                           60

 Within fourth quartile of buffer

 > (PCR + 0.75CB) to ≤ (PCR + CB)                                               40

 Above top of buffer

 > (PCR + CB)                                                                    0


2.    The minimum capital conservation ratios in Table 1 represent the percentage of
      earnings that an ADI must not distribute if its Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio
      falls within the corresponding quartile. If the Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio
      falls within the first quartile, the ADI must also cease all Tier 1 Capital
      distributions.

3.    Earnings are defined for the purposes of this Attachment as distributable profits
      calculated prior to the deduction of elements subject to the restriction on
      distributions. Earnings are calculated after the tax that would have been reported
      had none of the distributable items been paid. As such, any tax impact of making
      such distributions is reversed out. An ADI that does not have positive earnings
      and has a Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio less than the sum of its Common
      Equity Tier 1 PCR plus the capital conservation buffer must not make positive
      net distributions.




                                                                   APS 110 – Attachment B - 14

                         Authorised Version F2024L01518 registered 28/11/2024
                                                                              January 2025


4.   Payments made by an ADI that do not result in a depletion of Common Equity
     Tier 1 Capital are not considered to be distributions for the purposes of this
     Attachment. APRA may impose restrictions on capital distributions even where
     an ADI’s Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio is above the capital conservation
     buffer.

5.   APRA may impose limits on the period in which an ADI may operate within the
     capital conservation buffer range, on a case-by-case basis.




                                                                APS 110 – Attachment B - 15

                      Authorised Version F2024L01518 registered 28/11/2024
                                                                                January 2025


Attachment C – Countercyclical capital buffer

1.   An ADI must calculate the ADI-specific countercyclical capital buffer
     requirement as the weighted average of the jurisdictional countercyclical capital
     buffers that apply in jurisdictions in which the ADI has exposures.

2.   The weighting applied to the jurisdictional countercyclical capital buffer in each
     jurisdiction will be the risk-weighted amount of an ADI’s private sector credit
     exposures in that jurisdiction, divided by the risk-weighted amount of the ADI’s
     private sector credit exposures across all jurisdictions, where:

     (a)   private sector credit exposures are:

           (i)    on-balance sheet assets, off-balance sheet exposures and on- and off-
                  balance sheet securitisation and resecuritisation exposures
                  determined under APS 112, APS 113 or APS 120, as relevant; and

           (ii)   exposures for which an ADI calculates a trading book capital charge
                  for specific risk, including equity specific risk, interest rate specific
                  risk, incremental risk, securitisation and resecuritisation under
                  APS 116,

           to private sector counterparties, excluding ADIs (and equivalent overseas
           deposit-taking institutions) but including other financial institutions; and

     (b)   the risk-weighted amount of an ADI’s private sector credit exposures is the
           sum of:

           (i)    the risk-weighted assets for the assets and exposures in paragraph
                  2(a)(i) of this Attachment; and

           (ii)   the risk-weighted equivalent trading book capital charges for
                  exposures in paragraph 2(a)(ii) of this Attachment.

3.   When determining the jurisdiction to which a private sector credit exposure
     relates, ADIs must use an ultimate risk basis, where possible. An ADI must use
     the jurisdiction where the guarantor of the exposure resides, not where the
     exposure has been booked.

4.   APRA may require an ADI to apply a higher countercyclical capital buffer for a
     particular jurisdiction than may be determined by the regulator in that jurisdiction.

5.   For Level 2 purposes, the ADI-specific countercyclical capital buffer must cover
     all exposures incurred in relevant jurisdictions, even though the business may be
     undertaken by a member of the Level 2 group that is not itself an ADI or
     equivalent overseas deposit-taking institution.

6.   For the Value-at-Risk (VaR) for specific risk, the incremental risk charge and the
     comprehensive risk measurement charge included in calculating the ADI-specific
     countercyclical capital buffer, an ADI must consult with APRA to develop an
     approach that would translate these charges into individual instrument risk-


                                                                   APS 110 – AttachmentC - 16

                        Authorised Version F2024L01518 registered 28/11/2024
                                                                          January 2025


weights that would then be allocated to the geographic location of the specific
counterparties that make up the charge.




                                                             APS 110 – AttachmentC - 17

                  Authorised Version F2024L01518 registered 28/11/2024
                                                                                  January 2025


Attachment D – Leverage ratio

1.   An ADI must calculate its leverage ratio as follows:

                                        Tier 1 Capital
           Leverage ratio =
                                     Exposure Measure

     where:

     (a)    Tier 1 Capital is determined in accordance with APS 111; and

     (b)    the exposure measure is determined in accordance with this Attachment and
            is calculated as the sum of:13

            (i)    on-balance sheet exposures;

            (ii)   non-market related off-balance sheet exposures;

            (iii) derivative exposures; and

            (iv) securities financing transaction (SFT) exposures.

2.   Unless otherwise specified in this Attachment, an ADI must follow Australian
     Accounting Standards in calculating its exposure measure, subject to the
     following:

     (a)    physical or financial collateral, guarantees or other credit risk mitigation
            techniques must not be taken into account by an ADI to reduce the exposure
            measure;

     (b)    netting of assets and liabilities is not permitted; and

     (c)    securitisation exposures which meet the operational requirements for
            regulatory capital relief, as set out in APS 120, may be excluded from the
            exposure measure. All other securitisation exposures, including funding-
            only and synthetic securitisations, must be included in the exposure
            measure.

3.   APRA may temporarily exclude central bank reserves from the leverage ratio
     exposure measure in exceptional macroeconomic circumstances. If APRA
     excludes central bank reserves, it may increase the minimum leverage ratio
     requirement commensurately to offset the impact of the exclusion. In the event
     that APRA excludes central bank reserves from the calculation of the exposure
     measure, an ADI must publicly disclose the impact of the exclusion, as well as its
     leverage ratio calculated without the benefit of the exclusion.


13   For the purpose of determining exposures of an overseas banking subsidiary that is prudentially
     regulated by a prescribed New Zealand authority, an ADI must calculate exposures using the
     prescribed New Zealand authority’s equivalent prudential rules as in force from time to time.
     prescribed New Zealand authority has the meaning given in subsection 5(1) of the Banking Act.


                                                                     APS 110 – AttachmentD - 18

                          Authorised Version F2024L01518 registered 28/11/2024
                                                                                  January 2025


On-balance sheet exposures
4.    For the purpose of calculating on-balance sheet assets, an ADI must include all
      balance sheet assets, including any on-balance sheet collateral for derivatives and
      SFTs, but excluding on-balance sheet derivatives and SFTs covered by
      paragraphs 16 to 45 of this Attachment.

5.    Balance sheet assets deducted from Common Equity Tier 1 Capital and
      Additional Tier 1 Capital for the purposes of regulatory adjustments under
      APS 111 may be deducted from the exposure measure.

6.    Liability items must not be deducted from the exposure measure, including any
      gains and losses on fair value liabilities, or accounting value adjustments on
      derivative liabilities due to changes in an ADI’s own credit risk.

7.    On-balance sheet assets may be included in the exposure measure at their
      accounting values net of any provisions that have otherwise been deducted from
      Tier 1 Capital.

8.    Where an ADI holds assets in a fiduciary capacity, these assets may be excluded
      from the exposure measure provided that the assets meet the accounting criteria
      for derecognition and, where applicable, the accounting criteria for
      deconsolidation.

Unsettled trades

9.    An ADI must account for regular-way purchases or sales of financial assets that
      have not been settled on the following basis:

      (a)   ADIs which apply trade date accounting must reverse out any offsetting
            between cash receivables for unsettled sales and cash payables for unsettled
            purchases of financial assets. Thereafter, ADIs may offset between those
            cash receivables and cash payables (irrespective of whether such offsetting
            is permitted under Australian Accounting Standards) only if all of the
            following conditions are met:

            (i)    the financial assets bought and sold that are associated with cash
                   payables and receivables are measured at fair value through the
                   income statement and included in the ADI’s trading book in
                   accordance with Attachment A to APS 116; and

            (ii)   the transactions of the financial assets are settled on a delivery-versus-
                   payment basis; and

      (b)   ADIs which apply settlement date accounting must apply the treatment set
            out in paragraphs 12 and 15 of this Attachment.

Cash pooling

10.   If an ADI uses cash pooling arrangements which combine the credit and debit
      balances of several individual participating customer accounts into a single


                                                                     APS 110 – AttachmentD - 19

                          Authorised Version F2024L01518 registered 28/11/2024
                                                                                   January 2025


      account balance, the ADI may recognise the single account balance in its
      calculation of the exposure measure if:

      (a)   the balances are transferred on at least a daily basis; and

      (b)   the ADI cannot be held liable for the balances on an individual basis upon
            the transfer, i.e. the ADI can only be held liable for a single claim based on
            the single account.

11.   If cash pooling arrangements do not meet the conditions set out in paragraph 10
      of this Attachment, the individual balances of the participating customer accounts
      must be reflected separately in the exposure measure.

Non-market-related off-balance sheet exposures
12.   For the purpose of calculating non-market-related off-balance sheet exposures,
      an ADI must apply credit conversion factors (CCFs) to the gross notional amounts
      of off-balance sheet items.14 An ADI must apply the CCFs set out in Table 17 of
      Attachment C to APS 112.

13.   For any off-balance sheet securitisation exposures, an ADI must apply the
      relevant CCFs as set out in paragraph 43 of APS 120.

14.   Provisions that have decreased Tier 1 Capital may be deducted from the credit
      exposure equivalent amount (i.e. the exposure amount after the application of the
      relevant CCF). However, the resulting off-balance sheet equivalent amount for
      these exposures cannot be less than zero.

15.   If the exposure amount relates to an unsettled regular-way financial asset
      purchase (i.e. the commitment to pay) that is accounted for at settlement date, an
      ADI must apply a CCF of 100 per cent. An ADI may offset commitments to pay
      for unsettled purchases and cash to be received for unsettled sales provided the
      following conditions are met:

      (a)   the financial assets bought and sold that are associated with the cash
            payables and receivables are included in the ADI’s income statement at fair
            value and allocated to the ADI’s trading book in accordance with
            Attachment A to APS 116; and

      (b)   the transactions of the financial assets are settled on a delivery-versus-
            payment basis.

Derivative exposures
16.   For the purpose of calculating the exposure measure, an ADI must apply the
      specific treatment set out in paragraphs 17 to 36 of this Attachment to any
      derivatives transaction.




14    Off-balance sheet items have the meaning given in APS 112.


                                                                      APS 110 – AttachmentD - 20

                           Authorised Version F2024L01518 registered 28/11/2024
                                                                                   January 2025


Treatment of derivatives

17.   An ADI must calculate its exposures associated with all derivative transactions,
      including where it sells protection using a credit derivative, as:

      exposure measure = 1.4*(RC + PFE)

      where:

      RC = the replacement cost, calculated according to paragraph 19 of this
      Attachment; and

      PFE = the potential future exposure, calculated according to paragraphs 20 and
      21 of this Attachment.

18.   An ADI must calculate its exposure to:

      (a)   a single derivatives transaction not covered by an eligible bilateral netting
            agreement by applying the formula in paragraph 17 of this Attachment to
            each transaction separately; and

      (b)   derivatives transactions covered by an eligible bilateral netting agreement
            by applying the formula in paragraph 17 of this Attachment at the netting
            set level.15

      For this purpose, an eligible bilateral netting agreement is one that meets the
      criteria in Attachment H to APS 112. Cross-product netting (i.e. between
      derivatives and SFTs) is not permitted.

Calculation of the replacement cost

19.   The RC of a transaction or netting set is measured as follows:

      RC = max {V - CVMr + CVMp, 0}

      where:

      V = the market value of the individual derivative transaction, or of the derivative
      transactions in a netting set;

      CVMr = the cash variation margin received that meets the conditions set out in
      paragraph 23 of this Attachment and for which the amount has not already
      reduced the market value of the derivative transaction V under Australian
      Accounting Standards; and

      CVMp = the cash variation margin provided by the ADI that meets the conditions
      set out in paragraph 23 of this Attachment and for which the amount has not
      already increased the market value of the derivative transaction V under
      Australian Accounting Standards.


15    Netting set has the meaning given in paragraph 8(s) of APS 180.


                                                                      APS 110 – AttachmentD - 21

                           Authorised Version F2024L01518 registered 28/11/2024
                                                                                  January 2025


Calculation of the potential future exposure

20.   The PFE for derivative exposures must be calculated in accordance with
      Attachment D to APS 180. Specifically,

      PFE = m*AddOnaggregate

      where:

      m= 1; and

      AddOnaggregate = the aggregation of all add-on components calculated in
      accordance with Attachment D to APS 180. The maturity factor used must reflect
      the treatment for margined and unmargined transactions.

21.   Written options must be included in the leverage ratio exposure measure, even
      where the exposure at default may be set to zero under APS 180.

Treatment of related collateral

22.   Subject to paragraphs 24 and 29 of this Attachment, an ADI:

      (a)   must not reduce its exposure measure by the amount of any derivatives
            collateral received from a counterparty; and

      (b)   must increase its exposure measure by the amount of any derivatives
            collateral provided by it to a counterparty, where the provision of that
            collateral has reduced the value of its balance sheet assets under Australian
            Accounting Standards.

Treatment of cash variation margin

23.   An ADI may reduce its exposure measure by treating the cash portion of variation
      margin exchanged between counterparties as a form of pre-settlement payment,
      if the following conditions are met:

      (a)   for trades not cleared through a qualifying central counterparty (QCCP),16
            the cash received by the recipient counterparty must not be segregated.
            Cash variation margin would satisfy the non-segregation criteria if the
            recipient counterparty is not subject to any restrictions by law, regulation
            or agreement on the counterparty’s ability to use the cash received;

      (b)   variation margin is calculated and exchanged on a daily basis based on
            mark-to-market valuation of derivatives positions. In order to meet this
            requirement, derivative positions must be valued daily and cash variation
            margin must be transferred at least daily to the counterparty;




16    QCCP has the meaning given in paragraph 8(w) of APS 180.


                                                                     APS 110 – AttachmentD - 22

                          Authorised Version F2024L01518 registered 28/11/2024
                                                                                       January 2025


      (c)    the cash variation margin is received in a currency specified in the
             derivatives contract, governing master netting agreement (MNA),17 credit
             support annex to the qualifying MNA or as defined by any netting
             agreement with a central counterparty (CCP);18

      (d)    variation margin exchanged is the full amount that would be necessary to
             extinguish the mark-to-market exposure of the derivative subject to the
             threshold and minimum transfer amounts applicable to the counterparty;19
             and

      (e)    derivatives transactions and variation margins are covered by a single MNA
             between the legal entities that are the counterparties in the derivatives
             transaction. The MNA must explicitly stipulate that the counterparties agree
             to settle on a net basis any payment obligations covered by the MNA, taking
             into account any variation margin received or provided if a credit event
             occurs involving either counterparty.

24.   If the conditions in paragraph 23 of this Attachment are met and an ADI:

      (a)    receives cash variation margin from a counterparty, it may reduce the RC
             (but not the PFE component) of the exposure amount of the derivative
             transactions consistent with paragraph 19 of this Attachment; and

      (b)    provides cash variation margin to a counterparty, it may deduct the resulting
             receivable from its exposure measure, where the cash variation margin has
             been recognised as an asset in accordance with Australian Accounting
             Standards, and instead include the cash variation margin provided in the
             calculation of the RC consistent with paragraph 19 of this Attachment.

Treatment of clearing services

25.   If an ADI acting as a clearing member (CM)20 offers clearing services to clients,
      its trade exposures to the CCP must be included in its exposure measure by
      applying the same treatment as for any other type of derivative transaction. Trade
      exposures to a CCP arise when the ADI is obligated to reimburse the client for
      any losses suffered due to changes in the value of its transactions in the event that
      the CCP defaults.21



17    MNA includes any netting agreement that provides legally enforceable rights of offset and also
      satisfies the criteria for bilateral netting agreements as set out in Attachment H to APS 112. A
      master MNA, which is an overarching agreement that provides a legally enforceable right to net
      across more than one MNA, may be treated as a single MNA.
18    CCP has the meaning given in paragraph 8(b) of APS 180.
19    In situations where a margin dispute arises, the amount of non-disputed variation margin that has
      been exchanged can be recognised.
20    Clearing member has the meaning given in paragraph 8(c) of APS 180.
21    For the purposes of paragraphs 25 to 28 of this Attachment, trade exposures includes initial margin
      irrespective of whether or not it is posted in a manner that makes it remote from the insolvency of
      the CCP.


                                                                       APS 110 – AttachmentD - 23

                            Authorised Version F2024L01518 registered 28/11/2024
                                                                                       January 2025


26.   If an ADI acting as a CM is not contractually obligated to reimburse the client for
      any losses suffered in the event that a QCCP defaults, the ADI may exclude the
      resulting trade exposures to the QCCP from its exposure measure.

27.   If a client enters directly into a derivative transaction with a CCP, and an ADI
      acting as a CM guarantees the performance of the client’s transaction to the CCP,
      the ADI must calculate its related leverage ratio exposure resulting from the
      guarantee as a derivative exposure in accordance with paragraphs 17 to 24 of this
      Attachment, as if it had entered directly into the transaction with the client.

28.   If an entity falls within the Level 2 group of the ADI acting as a CM, trades
      between that entity and the ADI are eliminated in the course of consolidation and
      the ADI retains an exposure to the CCP. In this case, the transaction with the CCP
      will be considered proprietary for the ADI acting as a CM, and the exemption set
      out in paragraph 26 of this Attachment will not apply.

29.   If an ADI is providing client clearing services, it may use the approach detailed
      in Attachment D to APS 180 to calculate the RC and PFE of the exposure to the
      client. In using this approach, the ADI must only include the portion of initial
      margin received from the client which is subject to appropriate segregation by the
      ADI.

Additional treatment for written credit derivatives

30.   For written credit derivatives, an ADI must apply the additional treatment set out
      in paragraphs 30 to 36 of this Attachment. For the purposes of this Attachment,
      written credit derivative refers to a broad range of credit derivatives through
      which an ADI effectively provides credit protection and is not limited solely to
      credit default swaps and total return swaps.

31.   To capture the credit exposure to the underlying reference entity, the effective
      notional amount22 referenced by a written credit derivative must be included in
      the exposure measure unless:

      (a)    the written credit derivative is included in a transaction cleared on behalf of
             a client of the ADI acting as a CM; and

      (b)    the transaction meets the requirements of paragraph 26 of this Attachment
             for the exclusion of trade exposures to the QCCP.

32.   The effective notional amount of a written credit derivative may be reduced in
      one or both of the following ways:

      (a)    by any negative change in the fair value amount that has been incorporated
             into the calculation of Tier 1 Capital with respect to the written credit
             derivatives; and




22    The effective notional amount is obtained by adjusting the notional amount to reflect the true
      exposure of contracts that are leveraged or otherwise enhanced by the structure of the transaction.


                                                                       APS 110 – AttachmentD - 24

                            Authorised Version F2024L01518 registered 28/11/2024
                                                                                      January 2025


      (b)    by the effective notional amount of an offsetting purchased credit derivative
             on the same reference name23 provided the conditions set out in paragraph
             33 of this Attachment are satisfied.

33.   An ADI may reduce the effective notional amount through the application of
      offsetting purchased credit derivatives if the following conditions are satisfied:

      (a)    the credit protection purchased through credit derivatives is otherwise
             subject to the same, or more conservative, material terms as those in the
             corresponding written credit derivative.24 This ensures that if an ADI
             provides written credit protection via a credit derivative, it may only
             recognise offsetting from another purchased credit derivative if the
             purchased protection is certain to deliver a payment to the ADI in all
             circumstances;

      (b)    the remaining maturity of the credit protection purchased through credit
             derivatives is equal to or greater than the remaining maturity of the written
             credit derivatives;

      (c)    the credit protection purchased through credit derivatives is not purchased
             from a counterparty whose credit quality is highly correlated with the value
             of the reference obligation(i.e. wrong-way risk);

      (d)    in the event that the effective notional amount of a written credit derivative
             is reduced by any negative change in fair value reflected in the ADI’s Tier 1
             Capital, the effective notional amount of offsetting credit protection
             purchased through credit derivatives must also be reduced by any resulting
             positive change in fair value reflected in Tier 1 Capital; and

      (e)    the credit protection purchased through credit derivatives is not included in
             a transaction that has been cleared on behalf of a client and for which the
             effective notional amount referenced by the corresponding written credit
             derivative is excluded from the exposure measure under paragraph 26 of
             this Attachment.

34.   Credit protection purchased on a pool of reference names may only offset credit
      protection sold on individual reference names if the credit protection purchased
      is economically equivalent to buying protection separately on each of the
      individual names in the pool. If the credit protection purchased does not cover the
      entire pool (i.e. the protection covers only a subset of the pool, as in the case of
      an nth-to-default credit derivative or a securitisation tranche), no offsetting of
      credit protection sold on individual reference names is allowed.

35.   Where an ADI purchases credit protection through a total return swap and records
      the net payments received as net income, but does not record the offsetting
      deterioration in the value of the written credit derivative (either through
      reductions in fair value or by an addition to reserves) in Tier 1 Capital, the credit

23    Two reference names are considered identical only if they refer to the same legal entity.
24    Material terms include the level of subordination or seniority, optionality, strike price, credit
      events, reference name and any other characteristics relevant to the valuation of the derivative.


                                                                       APS 110 – AttachmentD - 25

                            Authorised Version F2024L01518 registered 28/11/2024
                                                                                   January 2025


      protection must not be used to offset the effective notional amounts of the written
      credit derivatives.

36.   An ADI may choose to exclude from the netting set for the calculation of PFE the
      portion of a written credit derivative which is not offset in accordance with
      paragraph 32 of this Attachment, and for which the effective notional amount is
      included in the exposure measure.

Securities financing transaction exposures
37.   For the purpose of calculating the exposure measure, an ADI must apply the
      specific treatment set out in paragraphs 38 to 45 of this Attachment to any SFT
      exposures.25

ADI acting as a principal

38.   When an ADI is acting as a principal in an SFT, its exposure measure must
      include the sum of the following amounts:

      (a)   gross SFT assets recognised for accounting purposes26 (i.e. with no
            recognition of accounting netting), adjusted as follows:

            (i)    excluding the value of any securities received under an SFT, where
                   the ADI has recognised the securities as an asset on its balance sheet;
                   and

            (ii)   cash payables and cash receivables in SFTs with the same
                   counterparty may be measured net if all the following criteria are met:

                   (A) transactions have the same explicit final settlement date.
                       Transactions with no explicit end date but which can be
                       unwound at any time by either party to the transaction are not
                       eligible;

                   (B)    the right to set-off the amount owed to the counterparty with the
                          amount owed by the counterparty is legally enforceable both in
                          the normal course of business and in the event of the default,
                          insolvency or bankruptcy of the counterparty; and

                   (C)    the counterparties intend to settle net, settle simultaneously, or
                          the transactions are subject to a settlement mechanism that




25    SFT has the meaning given in paragraph 14(aa) of APS 112.
26    For SFT assets subject to novation and cleared through QCCPs, ‘gross SFT assets recognised for
      accounting purposes’ are replaced by the final contractual exposure, given that pre-existing
      contracts have been replaced by new legal obligations through the novation process. However,
      ADIs may only net cash receivables and cash payables with a QCCP if the criteria in paragraph
      38(a)(ii) are met. Any other netting permitted by the QCCP is not permitted for the purposes of
      the leverage ratio.


                                                                      APS 110 – AttachmentD - 26

                           Authorised Version F2024L01518 registered 28/11/2024
                                                                                       January 2025


                           results in the functional equivalent of net settlement.27 If there
                           is a failure of the securities leg of a transaction at the end of the
                           window for settlement in the settlement mechanism, then this
                           transaction and its matching cash leg must be split out from the
                           netting set and treated gross; and

      (b)    a measure of counterparty credit risk calculated as the current exposure
             without a PFE add-on, calculated as follows:

             (i)    where a qualifying MNA as defined in paragraphs 40 and 41 of this
                    Attachment is in place, the current exposure (E*) must be set to the
                    greater of zero and the total fair value of securities and cash lent to a
                    counterparty for all transactions included in the qualifying MNA
                    (∑Ei) less the total fair value of cash and securities received from the
                    counterparty for those transactions (∑Ci). This is illustrated in the
                    following formula:

                    E* = max {0, [∑Ei - ∑Ci]}

             (ii)   where no qualifying MNA is in place, the current exposure for
                    transactions with a counterparty must be calculated on a transaction
                    by transaction basis; that is, each transaction i is treated as its own
                    netting set, as shown in the following formula:

                    Ei* = max {0, [Ei – Ci]}

                    Ei* may be set to zero if:

                    (A) Ei is the cash lent to a counterparty;

                    (B)    this transaction is treated as its own netting set; and

                    (C)    the associated cash receivable is not eligible for the netting
                           treatment in paragraph 38(a) of this Attachment.

39.   For the purposes of paragraph 38(b) of this Attachment, ‘counterparty’ includes
      not only the counterparty of the bilateral repurchase transactions, but also triparty
      repurchase agents that receive collateral in deposit and manage the collateral in
      the case of triparty repurchase transactions. Securities deposited at triparty
      repurchase agents are included in the total value of securities and cash lent to a
      counterparty (E) up to the amount effectively lent to the counterparty in a
      repurchase transaction. However, excess collateral that has been deposited at
      triparty agents but that has not been lent out may be excluded.


27    To achieve such equivalence, both transactions are settled through the same settlement system
      and the settlement arrangements are supported by cash or intraday credit facilities intended to
      ensure that settlement of both transactions will occur by the end of the business day and, any
      issues arising from the securities legs of the SFTs do not interfere with the completion of the net
      settlement of the cash receivables and payables. The failure of any single securities transaction in
      the settlement mechanism may delay settlement of only the matching cash leg or create an
      obligation to the settlement mechanism, supported by an associated credit facility.


                                                                       APS 110 – AttachmentD - 27

                            Authorised Version F2024L01518 registered 28/11/2024
                                                                                 January 2025


40.   For the purpose of paragraph 38(b), a bilateral netting agreement for covering
      SFTs may be recognised as a qualifying MNA on a counterparty by counterparty
      basis only if it:

      (a)   is legally enforceable in each relevant jurisdiction upon the occurrence of
            an event of default, regardless of whether the counterparty is insolvent or
            bankrupt;

      (b)   provides the non-defaulting party with the right to terminate and close out
            in a timely manner all transactions under the agreement upon an event of
            default, including in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the
            counterparty;

      (c)   provides for the netting of gains and losses on transactions (including the
            value of any collateral) terminated and closed out under it so that a single
            net amount is owed by one party to the other; and

      (d)   allows for the prompt liquidation or set-off of collateral in the event of
            default.

41.   Netting across SFT positions held in the banking book and trading book will only
      be recognised when the netted transactions meet the conditions set out in
      paragraph 6 of Attachment H to APS 112.

42.   Where an ADI applies sale accounting to an SFT in accordance with Australian
      Accounting Standards, it must reverse all sales-related accounting entries, and
      then calculate its exposure as if the SFT had been treated as a financing
      transaction under those standards (i.e. the ADI must include the sum of amounts
      in paragraphs 38(a) and 38(b) of this Attachment for such an SFT) for the
      purposes of determining its exposure measure.

ADI acting as an agent

43.   An ADI acting as an agent in an SFT may apply paragraph 38(b) of this
      Attachment to calculate its exposure measure for the transaction where:

      (a)   the ADI provides an indemnity or guarantee to a customer or counterparty
            for any difference between the value of the security or cash that the
            customer has lent and the value of collateral that the borrower has provided;
            and

      (b)   the ADI’s exposure to the transaction is limited to the guaranteed difference
            between the value of the security or cash its customer has lent, and the value
            of the collateral the borrower has provided.

      Where the ADI is further economically exposed (i.e. beyond the guarantee for the
      difference) to the underlying security or cash in the transaction, a further exposure
      equal to the full amount of the security or cash must be included in the exposure
      measure.

44.   Where an ADI acting as an agent provides an indemnity or guarantee to both
      parties involved in an SFT (i.e. securities lender and securities borrower), the ADI

                                                                    APS 110 – AttachmentD - 28

                         Authorised Version F2024L01518 registered 28/11/2024
                                                                                January 2025


      must calculate its exposure measure separately for each party involved in the
      transaction.

45.   When an ADI acting as agent in an SFT does not provide an indemnity or
      guarantee to any of the involved parties, the ADI has no exposure to the SFT, and
      is not required to include those SFTs in its exposure measure.




                                                                   APS 110 – AttachmentD - 29

                        Authorised Version F2024L01518 registered 28/11/2024
