SOURCE: https://www.legislation.gov.au/F2018L01390/asmade/2018-10-02/text/original/pdf
FINAL URL: https://www.legislation.gov.au/F2018L01390/asmade/2018-10-02/text/original/pdf
FETCHED: 2026-10-08

Banking, Insurance, Life Insurance and Health
Insurance (prudential standard) determination No.2 of
2018

Prudential Standard CPS 520 Fit and Proper

Banking Act 1959
Insurance Act 1973
Life Insurance Act 1995
Private Health Insurance (Prudential Supervision) Act 2015
I, Geoff Summerhayes, a delegate of APRA:

(a)   under subsection 11AF(3) of the Banking Act 1959 REVOKE Banking,
      Insurance and Life Insurance (prudential standard) determination No. 9 of
      2016, including Prudential Standard CPS 520 Fit and Proper made under that
      Determination, to the extent that it applied to all ADIs and authorised banking
      NOHCs;

(b)   under subsection 32(4) of the Insurance Act 1973 REVOKE Banking,
      Insurance and Life Insurance (prudential standard) determination No. 9 of
      2016, including Prudential Standard CPS 520 Fit and Proper made under that
      Determination, to the extent that it applied to all general insurers, authorised
      insurance NOHCs, and subsidiaries of general insurers and authorised
      insurance NOHCs;

(c)   under subsection 230A(5) of the Life Insurance Act 1995 REVOKE Banking,
      Insurance and Life Insurance (prudential standard) determination No. 9 of
      2016, including Prudential Standard CPS 520 Fit and Proper made under that
      Determination, to the extent that it applied to life companies, friendly
      societies, registered life NOHCs, and subsidiaries of life companies and
      registered life NOHCs;

(d)   under subsection 11AF(1) of the Banking Act 1959 DETERMINE Prudential
      Standard CPS 520 Fit and Proper in the form set out in the Schedule, to the
      extent that it applies to all ADIs and authorised banking NOHCs;




                      Authorised Version F2018L01390 registered 02/10/2018
(e)   under subsection 32(1) of the Insurance Act 1973 DETERMINE Prudential
      Standard CPS 520 Fit and Proper in the form set out in the Schedule, to the
      extent that it applies to all general insurers, authorised insurance NOHCs, and
      subsidiaries of general insurers and authorised insurance NOHCs;

(f)   under subsection 230A(1) of the Life Insurance Act 1995 DETERMINE
      Prudential Standard CPS 520 Fit and Proper in the form set out in the
      Schedule, to the extent that it applies to all life companies, friendly societies,
      registered life NOHCs, and subsidiaries of life companies and registered life
      NOHCs; and

(g)   under subsection 92(1) of the Private Health Insurance (Prudential
      Supervision) Act 2015 DETERMINE Prudential Standard CPS 520 Fit and
      Proper in the form set out in the Schedule, to the extent that it applies to all
      private health insurers.

This instrument commences on 1 July 2019.



Dated 14 September 2018




Geoff Summerhayes

Member




                       Authorised Version F2018L01390 registered 02/10/2018
Interpretation
In this Determination:
ADI has the meaning given in section 5 of the Banking Act 1959.
APRA means the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority.
authorised banking NOHC has the meaning given to the expression authorised
NOHC in section 5 of the Banking Act 1959.
authorised insurance NOHC has the meaning given to the expression authorised
NOHC in subsection 3(1) of the Insurance Act 1973.
friendly society has the meaning given in section 16C of the Life Insurance Act 1995.
general insurer has the meaning given in section 11 of the Insurance Act 1973.
life company has the meaning given in the Schedule to the Life Insurance Act 1995.
private health insurer has the meaning given in section 4(1) of Private Health
Insurance (Prudential Supervision) Act 2015.
registered life NOHC has the meaning given to the expression registered NOHC in
the Schedule to the Life Insurance Act 1995.




Schedule
Prudential Standard CPS 520 Fit and Proper comprises the 24 pages commencing on
the following page.




                         Authorised Version F2018L01390 registered 02/10/2018
                                                                                  July 2019




Prudential Standard CPS 520
Fit and Proper
Objectives and key requirements of this Prudential
Standard

This Prudential Standard sets out minimum requirements for APRA-regulated
institutions in determining the fitness and propriety of individuals to hold positions of
responsibility. Its objective is to ensure that an institution prudently manages the risks
that persons acting in responsible person positions who are not fit and proper pose to
the institution’s business and financial standing.

The ultimate responsibility for ensuring the fitness and propriety of the responsible
persons of an APRA-regulated institution rests with its Board of directors (or
equivalent).

Persons who are responsible for the management and oversight of an APRA-regulated
institution, and persons employed by a member of the group whose activities may
materially affect the business or financial standing of the group, need to have
appropriate skills, experience and knowledge, and act with honesty and integrity.
These skills and qualities strengthen the protection afforded to depositors,
policyholders and other stakeholders. To this end, institutions need to prudently
manage the risk that persons in positions of responsibility might not be fit and proper.

The key requirements of this Prudential Standard are that an APRA-regulated
institution and a Head of a group must:

     maintain a Fit and Proper Policy that meets the requirements of this Prudential
      Standard;

     ensure that the fitness and propriety of a responsible person generally be
      assessed prior to initial appointment and then re-assessed annually;

     take all prudent steps to ensure that a person is not appointed to, or does not
      continue to hold, a responsible person position for which they are not fit and
      proper;

     ensure that additional requirements be met for certain auditors and Appointed
      and Reviewing Actuaries; and


                                                                                CPS 520 - 1
                         Authorised Version F2018L01390 registered 02/10/2018
                                                                              July 2019


   ensure that certain information be provided to APRA regarding responsible
    persons and the APRA-regulated institution’s and Head of a group’s assessment
    of their fitness and propriety.




                                                                            CPS 520 - 2
                     Authorised Version F2018L01390 registered 02/10/2018
                                                                                                         July 2019


Table of Contents

Authority ........................................................................................................... 4
Application ....................................................................................................... 4
Interpretation .................................................................................................... 5
Fit and Proper Policy........................................................................................ 6
Additional requirements of the Head of a group ............................................... 7
Responsible persons ....................................................................................... 7
Senior managers.............................................................................................. 8
Criteria to determine if a responsible person is fit and proper ........................ 10
Additional criteria applying to auditors ........................................................... 10
Additional criteria applying to Appointed Actuaries ........................................ 12
Process for assessment of fitness and propriety............................................ 13
Whistleblowing ............................................................................................... 15
When a responsible person is not fit and proper ............................................ 16
Informing APRA ............................................................................................. 16
Adjustments and exclusions........................................................................... 17
Determinations made under previous prudential standards ........................... 17
Attachment A - Responsible persons of authorised deposit-taking
institutions and authorised banking NOHCs .................................................. 18
Attachment B - Responsible persons of foreign authorised deposit-taking
institutions ...................................................................................................... 19
Attachment C - Responsible persons of general insurers and authorised
insurance NOHCs .......................................................................................... 20
Attachment D - Responsible persons of Category C insurers ........................ 21
Attachment E - Responsible persons of life companies and registered life
NOHCs .......................................................................................................... 22
Attachment F - Responsible persons of eligible foreign life insurance
companies ..................................................................................................... 23
Attachment G – Responsible persons of private health insurers ................... 24




                                                                                                      CPS 520 - 3
                                 Authorised Version F2018L01390 registered 02/10/2018
                                                                                            July 2019


Authority

1.       This Prudential Standard is made under:

         (a)   section 11AF of the Banking Act 1959 (Banking Act);

         (b)   section 32 of the Insurance Act 1973 (Insurance Act);

         (c)   section 230A of the Life Insurance Act 1995 (Life Insurance Act); and

         (d)   section 92 of the Private Health Insurance (Prudential Supervision Act)
               2015 (PHIPS Act).

Application

    2.   This Prudential Standard applies to all ‘APRA-regulated institutions’,1 defined
         as:

         (a)   all authorised deposit-taking institutions (ADIs), including foreign
               ADIs, and non-operating holding companies authorised under the
               Banking Act (authorised banking NOHCs);

         (b)   all general insurers, including Category C insurers, non-operating
               holding companies authorised under the Insurance Act (authorised
               insurance NOHCs) and parent entities of Level 2 insurance groups;

         (c)   all life companies, including friendly societies and eligible foreign life
               insurance companies (EFLICs), and non-operating holding companies
               registered under the Life Insurance Act (registered life NOHCs); and

         (d)   all private health insurers registered under the PHIPS Act.

3.       All APRA-regulated institutions have to comply with this Prudential Standard
         in its entirety, unless otherwise expressly indicated. The obligations imposed by
         this Prudential Standard on, or in relation to, a foreign ADI, a Category C
         insurer or an EFLIC apply only in relation to the Australian branch operations
         of that institution.

4.       Where an APRA-regulated institution is the ‘Head of a group’,2 it must comply
         with a requirement of this Prudential Standard:

         (a)   in its capacity as an APRA-regulated institution;

         (b)   by ensuring that a requirement is applied appropriately throughout the
               group, including in relation to institutions that are not APRA-regulated;
               and

1
         Note, for the purposes of this Prudential Standard, an RSE licensee is not treated as an ‘APRA-
         regulated institution’. Refer to Prudential Standard SPS 520 Fit and Proper (SPS 520) for
         fitness and propriety requirements for an RSE licensee.
2
         Where a Level 2 group operates within a Level 3 group, a requirement expressed as applying to
         a Head of a group is to be read as applying to the Level 3 Head.



                                                                                         CPS 520 - 4
                              Authorised Version F2018L01390 registered 02/10/2018
                                                                                July 2019


     (c)   where specified, on a group basis.

     In applying the requirements of this Prudential Standard on a group basis,
     references in paragraphs 12 to 16 and 25 to 61 to an ‘APRA-regulated
     institution’ should be read as ‘Head of a group’ and references to ‘institution’
     should be read as ‘group’.

5.   This Prudential Standard commences on 1 July 2019.

Interpretation

6.   Terms that are defined in Prudential Standard 3PS 001 Definitions, Prudential
     Standard APS 001 Definitions (APS 001), Prudential Standard GPS 001
     Definitions (GPS 001), Prudential Standard LPS 001 Definitions or Prudential
     Standard HPS 001 Definitions (HPS 001) appear in bold the first time they are
     used in this Prudential Standard.

7.   Where this Prudential Standard provides for APRA to exercise a power or
     discretion, this power or discretion is to be exercised in writing.

8.   For the purposes of this Prudential Standard:

     ‘group’ means a Level 2 group or a Level 3 group, as relevant;

     ‘Head of a group’ means a Level 2 Head or Level 3 Head, as relevant;

     ‘Level 2 group’ means the entities that comprise:

     (a)   Level 2 as defined in APS 001; or

     (b)   a Level 2 insurance group as defined in GPS 001;

     Level 2 Head’ means:

     (a)   where an ADI that is a member of a Level 2 group is not a subsidiary of
           an authorised banking NOHC or another ADI, that ADI;

     (b)   where an ADI that is a member of a Level 2 group is a subsidiary of an
           authorised banking NOHC, that authorised banking NOHC; or

     (c)   the parent entity of a Level 2 insurance group as defined in GPS 001.

9.   For the purposes of this Prudential Standard, a reference to an ‘auditor’ is taken
     to be a reference to a person holding any of the following positions unless
     otherwise specified:

     (a)   ‘Appointed auditor’ has the meaning given in APS 001, in relation to an
           ADI or authorised banking NOHC;

     (b)   ‘Appointed Auditor’ has the meaning given in GPS 001, in relation to a
           general insurer (including a Category C insurer);

     (c)   ‘Auditor’ has the meaning given in Prudential Standard LPS 310 Audit

                                                                              CPS 520 - 5
                       Authorised Version F2018L01390 registered 02/10/2018
                                                                                          July 2019


             and Related Matters (LPS 310), in relation to a life company (including
             an EFLIC);

      (d)    ‘responsible auditor’ has the meaning given in GPS 001, in relation to an
             authorised insurance NOHC, and, in relation to a registered life NOHC, is
             an auditor who is required to prepare a report under the Life Insurance
             Act, prudential standards made under the Life Insurance Act or reporting
             standards made under the Financial Sector (Collection of Data) Act 2001
             (FSCODA);

      (e)    ‘Appointed Auditor’ has the meaning given in Prudential Standard 3PS
             310 Audit and Related Matters, in relation to a Level 3 Head; and

      (f)    ‘Appointed Auditor’ has the meaning given in Prudential Standard HPS
             310 Audit and Related Matters in relation to a private health insurer.

10.   In this Prudential Standard, the term ‘Prudential Acts’ is used to refer to the
      Banking Act, the Insurance Act and the Life Insurance Act.

11.   This Prudential Standard specifies:

      (a)    the senior management responsibilities for the purposes of the definition
             of senior manager in the Prudential Acts3 and the definition of officer in
             the PHIPS Act;

      (b)    the fitness and propriety criteria for auditors and Appointed Actuaries for
             the purposes of the Prudential Acts4 and the PHIPS Act;

      (c)    the fitness and propriety criteria for certain responsible persons for the
             purposes of the Prudential Acts5 and the PHIPS Act; and

      (d)    the fitness and propriety criteria for the purposes of paragraph 21(3)(b) of
             the Banking Act.

Fit and Proper Policy

12.   An APRA-regulated institution must prudently manage the risks that persons
      acting in responsible person positions6 who are not fit and proper pose to the

3
      Refer to subsection 5(1) of the Banking Act in relation to ADIs and authorised banking NOHCs,
      subsection 3(1) of the Insurance Act in relation to general insurers and authorised insurance
      NOHCs, and section 8 of the Life Insurance Act in relation to life companies and registered life
      NOHCs.
4
      Refer to paragraph 17(2)(b) of the Banking Act in relation to ADIs and authorised banking
      NOHCs, paragraphs 39(3)(a) and 43(2)(c), and subparagraph 44(1)(a)(iii), of the Insurance Act
      in relation to general insurers and authorised insurance NOHCs, and section 84 and subsection
      93(3) of the Life Insurance Act in relation to life companies and registered life NOHCs.
5
      Refer to paragraph 23(2)(b) of the Banking Act in relation to ADIs and authorised banking
      NOHCs, paragraphs 25A(3)(b), 27(2)(b), 43(2)(b), 44(3)(b) and 49R(3)(b), and subparagraph
      44(1)(a)(ii), of the Insurance Act in relation to general insurers and authorised insurance
      NOHCs, and section 245A(3)(b) of the Life Insurance Act in relation to life companies and
      registered life NOHCs.
6
      Refer to paragraph 24 for the definition of responsible person position.



                                                                                       CPS 520 - 6
                           Authorised Version F2018L01390 registered 02/10/2018
                                                                                            July 2019


      institution’s business and financial standing. To this end, an APRA-regulated
      institution must maintain a documented policy relating to the fitness and
      propriety of the institution’s responsible persons that meets the requirements of
      this Prudential Standard (Fit and Proper Policy).

13.   The Fit and Proper Policy must be approved by the Board.7

14.   An APRA-regulated institution must take all reasonable steps to ensure that
      each responsible person is aware of, and understands, the provisions of its Fit
      and Proper Policy.

15.   The Fit and Proper Policy must form part of an institution’s risk management
      framework.8

16.   Nothing in this Prudential Standard prevents an APRA-regulated institution
      from adopting and applying a group Fit and Proper Policy used by a related
      body corporate9, provided that the policy has been approved by the Board in
      accordance with paragraph 13 and meets the requirements of this Prudential
      Standard.

Additional requirements of the Head of a group

17.   The Head of a group must maintain a group Fit and Proper Policy (refer to
      paragraphs 12 to 16).

18.   Where an entity within the group that is not an APRA-regulated institution
      engages in business activities that may materially affect, either directly or
      indirectly, the whole, or a substantial part, of the group, the Head of the group
      must ensure that the responsible persons for those business activities are
      assessed for fitness and propriety in a way that complies with the group Fit and
      Proper Policy.10

19.   The Head of a group must notify APRA in accordance with paragraphs 56 to 61
      in respect of each responsible person across the group, except where an APRA-
      regulated institution within the group has otherwise notified APRA of that
      information.

Responsible persons

20.   A ‘responsible person’ is:

      (a)    for an ADI (other than a foreign ADI) or an authorised banking NOHC, a
             person defined in Attachment A;

      (b)    for a foreign ADI, a person defined in Attachment B;
7
      A reference to the Board in the case of a foreign ADI is a reference to the senior officer outside
      Australia.
8
      Refer to Prudential Standard CPS 220 Risk Management.
9
      Related body corporate has the meaning given in section 50 of the Corporations Act 2001
      (Corporations Act).
10
      This paragraph does not override any requirements in SPS 520 applying to an RSE licensee.



                                                                                        CPS 520 - 7
                            Authorised Version F2018L01390 registered 02/10/2018
                                                                                             July 2019


      (c)    for a general insurer (other than a Category C insurer) or an authorised
             insurance NOHC, a person defined in Attachment C;

      (d)    for a Category C insurer, a person defined in Attachment D;

      (e)    for a life company (other than an EFLIC) or a registered life NOHC, a
             person defined in Attachment E;

      (f)    for an EFLIC, a person defined in Attachment F;

      (g)    for the purposes of a group, a person whose activities may materially
             affect, either directly or indirectly, the whole, or a substantial part, of the
             business or financial status of the group; and

      (h)    for a private health insurer, a person defined in Attachment G.

21.   A person need not be an employee of an APRA-regulated institution to be a
      responsible person. In some circumstances a consultant, contractor or employee
      of another entity may be a responsible person.

22.   In addition to persons who meet the definition of a responsible person, APRA
      may determine that a person is a responsible person if APRA is satisfied that the
      person plays a significant role in the management or control of the APRA-
      regulated institution or group, or that the person’s activities may materially
      impact on prudential matters.

23.   APRA may determine that a person is not a responsible person in relation to a
      particular position, responsibility or activity if APRA is satisfied that the person
      does not play a significant role in the management or control of the APRA-
      regulated institution or group or that the person’s activities may not materially
      impact on prudential matters.

24.   ‘Responsible person position’ means the responsibilities or activities of a
      responsible person that would lead to the person being a responsible person
      under the definition in paragraph 20.

Senior managers

25.   ‘Senior manager’, or a person who has or exercises senior management
      responsibilities11, means a person (other than a director) who:

      (a)    makes, or participates in making, decisions that affect the whole, or a
             substantial part, of the business of the institution;

      (b)    has the capacity to affect significantly the institution’s financial
             standing12;

11
      For the purposes of an ‘officer’ as defined in subsection 4(1) of the PHIPS Act, in this case
      excluding a CEO or director.
12
      Paragraphs 25(a) and (b) are intended to be interpreted consistently with the definition of ‘senior
      manager’ (in relation to a corporation) in section 9 of the Corporations Act.



                                                                                         CPS 520 - 8
                            Authorised Version F2018L01390 registered 02/10/2018
                                                                                             July 2019


      (c)      may materially affect the whole, or a substantial part, of the business of
               the institution or its financial standing through their responsibility for:

            (i)     enforcing policies and implementing strategies approved by the
                    Board of the APRA-regulated institution;

            (ii)    the development and implementation of systems used to identify,
                    assess, manage or monitor risks in relation to the business of the
                    institution; or

        (iii)       monitoring the appropriateness, adequacy and effectiveness of risk
                    management systems; or

      (d)      for a foreign ADI or Category C insurer, is nominated as the senior officer
               outside Australia to the extent that the person meets the definition in
               subparagraphs (a), (b) or (c).

26.   For the purposes of the definition of senior manager in the Prudential Acts13 and
      the definition of officer in the PHIPS Act14, the responsibilities set out in
      paragraph 25, when exercised for an APRA-regulated institution, are senior
      management responsibilities (except where carried out by a director).

27.   ‘Senior manager’, in relation to a corporate agent of a Category C insurer,
      means a person (other than a director of the corporate agent) who, when acting
      for the corporate agent:

      (a)      makes, or participates in making, decisions that affect the whole, or a
               substantial part, of the business of the Category C insurer represented by
               the corporate agent;

      (b)      has the capacity to affect significantly the Category C insurer’s financial
               standing;15 or

      (c)      may materially affect the whole, or a substantial part, of the business of
               the Category C insurer or its financial standing through:

            (i)     enforcing policies and implementing strategies approved by the
                    Board of the Category C insurer;

            (ii)    the development and implementation of systems that identify,
                    assess, manage or monitor risks in relation to the business of the
                    Category C insurer; or

        (iii)       monitoring the appropriateness, adequacy and effectiveness of risk
                    management systems.
13
      Refer to subsection 5(1) of the Banking Act, subsection 3(1) of the Insurance Act and section 8
      of the Life Insurance Act.
14
      In relation to section 4(1) of the PHIPS Act, only category (c) in the definition of ‘officer’ is
      relevant here.
15
      Paragraphs 27(a) and (b) are intended to be interpreted consistently with the definition of ‘senior
      manager’ (in relation to a corporation) in section 9 of the Corporations Act.



                                                                                         CPS 520 - 9
                            Authorised Version F2018L01390 registered 02/10/2018
                                                                                          July 2019


28.   For the purposes of the definition of senior manager in subsection 3(1) of the
      Insurance Act, the responsibilities set out in paragraph 27, when exercised for a
      corporate agent in respect of an APRA-regulated institution, are senior
      management responsibilities (except when carried out by a director of the
      corporate agent).

Criteria to determine if a responsible person is fit and proper

29.   An APRA-regulated institution must clearly define and document the
      competencies required for each responsible person position.

30.   For the purposes of the Prudential Acts and the PHIPS Act and for the purposes
      of determining whether a person is fit and proper to hold a responsible person
      position, the criteria are whether: 16

      (a)      it would be prudent for an APRA-regulated institution to conclude that the
               person possesses the competence, character, diligence, honesty, integrity
               and judgement to perform properly the duties of the responsible person
               position;

      (b)      the person is not disqualified under an applicable Prudential Act or the
               PHIPS Act from holding the position;

      (c)      the person either:

            (i)      has no conflict of interest in performing the duties of the responsible
                     person position; or

            (ii)     if the person has a conflict of interest, it would be prudent for an
                     APRA-regulated institution to conclude that the conflict will not
                     create a material risk that the person will fail to perform properly the
                     duties of the position; and

      (d)      for a senior manager of a corporate agent of a general insurer, the person
               is ordinarily resident in Australia.

Additional criteria applying to auditors17

31.   The criteria for fitness and propriety of an auditor for the purposes of the
      Prudential Acts are those contained in paragraphs 30 and 32.18



16
      Refer to paragraphs 21(3)(b) and 23(2)(b) of the Banking Act, paragraphs 25A(3)(b), 27(2)(b),
      43(2)(b) and 44(3)(b) and subparagraph 44(1)(a)(ii) of the Insurance Act, paragraph 245A(3)(b)
      of the Life Insurance Act and subsections 120(1)(a) and 120(3)(a) of the PHIPS Act. Paragraphs
      32 and 35 to 36 provide additional criteria for fitness and propriety of an auditor or Appointed
      Actuary (as applicable) and the eligibility criteria that must be met before an auditor or
      Appointed Actuary may be appointed (other than a criterion that APRA has determined under
      paragraphs 33 or 37 does not apply in relation to a particular case).
17
      Refer to Prudential Standard CPS 510 Governance (CPS 510) for the requirement for auditors
      to be independent.



                                                                                     CPS 520 - 10
                           Authorised Version F2018L01390 registered 02/10/2018
                                                                                         July 2019


32.   The additional criteria which must be met for an auditor to be fit and proper are
      that the person:

      (a)      is a registered company auditor under the Corporations Act;

      (b)      has a minimum of five years’ relevant experience in the audit of APRA-
               regulated institutions in the industry within which they are working;

      (c)      is neither the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) nor a director of the APRA-
               regulated institution nor of a related body corporate;

      (d)      has experience relating to ADIs, general insurers, life companies or
               private health insurers (as applicable) that is sufficiently relevant and
               recent to provide reasonable assurance that the person is familiar with
               current issues in the audit of that type of APRA-regulated institution;

      (e)      for an Appointed Auditor of a general insurer19 or responsible auditor of
               an authorised insurance NOHC, is not:

            (i)      for the Appointed Auditor of a general insurer, the Appointed
                     Actuary of the general insurer or, for the responsible auditor of an
                     authorised insurance NOHC, the Appointed Actuary of a general
                     insurer that is a subsidiary of the authorised insurance NOHC;

            (ii)     an employee or director of a body corporate, statutory body,
                     partnership, trust, or commercial or professional enterprise of any
                     kind of which that Appointed Actuary is an employee or director20;
                     or

        (iii)        a partner of that Appointed Actuary;

      (f)      for an Auditor of a life company or responsible auditor of a registered life
               NOHC, is not:

        (iv)         the Appointed Actuary of the life company or of a life company
                     that is a subsidiary of the registered life NOHC;

            (v)      an employee or director of a body corporate, statutory body,
                     partnership, trust, or commercial or professional enterprise of any
                     kind of which that Appointed Actuary is an employee or director; or

        (vi)         a partner of that Appointed Actuary;

      (g)      is a member of a recognised professional body; and

18
      Refer to paragraphs 17(2)(b) and 21(3)(b) of the Banking Act; paragraphs 39(3)(a), 43(2)(b) and
      44(3)(b), and subparagraph 44(1)(a)(ii) of the Insurance Act and paragraph 245A(3)(b) of the
      Life Insurance Act.
19
      For paragraphs 32 to 37 refer also to Prudential Standard GPS 310 Audit and Related Matters
      and Prudential Standard CPS 320 Actuarial and Related Matters (CPS 320).
20
      Refer to CPS 510 for a similar restriction on the Appointed Auditor and Appointed Actuary of a
      general insurer or a private health insurer being from the same entity.



                                                                                    CPS 520 - 11
                           Authorised Version F2018L01390 registered 02/10/2018
                                                                                            July 2019


      (h)      is ordinarily resident in Australia.

33.   The criteria in paragraph 32 do not apply if the following conditions are met:

      (a)      the APRA-regulated institution reasonably considers that there are
               exceptional circumstances;

      (b)      the APRA-regulated institution has promptly notified APRA of the
               eligibility criteria that are not satisfied and of the exceptional
               circumstances as to why they do not apply; and

      (c)      APRA has notified the APRA-regulated institution that APRA has no
               objections to the person holding the position in question.

Additional criteria applying to Appointed Actuaries21

34.   The criteria for fitness and propriety of an Appointed Actuary of a general
      insurer, a life company or a private health insurer, for the purposes of the
      Insurance Act, Life Insurance Act and PHIPS Act are those contained in
      paragraphs 30 and 35 to 37.22

35.   The additional criteria that must be met for a person to be fit and proper to act as
      an Appointed Actuary of a general insurer, a life company or a private health
      insurer are that the person:

      (a)      has appropriate formal qualifications;

      (b)      is not the CEO or a director of the general insurer or life company, as
               applicable, or of a related body corporate (except when that related body
               corporate is a subsidiary of the general insurer or life company, as
               applicable);

      (c)      is not:

            (i)      the Appointed Auditor or Auditor, as applicable;

            (ii)     for an Appointed Actuary, an employee or director of an entity of
                     which the Appointed Auditor or Auditor is an employee or director;
                     or

        (iii)        for an Appointed Actuary, a partner of the Appointed Auditor or
                     Auditor, as applicable;

      (d)      has a minimum of five years’ relevant experience in the provision of
               actuarial services to entities carrying on insurance business (for a general
               insurer), life business (for a life company), or private health insurance (for
               a private health insurer) and has experience relating to general insurers,
21
      Refer to CPS 320 for eligibility criteria for appointed actuaries as required by section 93 of the
      Life Insurance Act.
22
      Refer to paragraphs 39(3)(a), 43(2)(b) and 44(3)(b), and subparagraph 44(1)(a)(ii) of the
      Insurance Act.



                                                                                       CPS 520 - 12
                            Authorised Version F2018L01390 registered 02/10/2018
                                                                                          July 2019


             life companies, or private health insurers, as applicable, that is sufficiently
             relevant and recent to provide reasonable assurance that the person is
             familiar with current issues in the provision of actuarial services to such
             institutions;

      (e)    is a Fellow or Accredited Member23 of the Institute of Actuaries of
             Australia; and

      (f)    is ordinarily resident in Australia.

36.   The criterion in paragraph 35(f) does not apply to the Appointed Actuary of a
      Category B insurer and a Category C insurer if:

      (a)    the Appointed Actuary is responsible for providing actuarial services to
             the corporate group, as a whole, to which the insurer belongs; and

      (b)    the Appointed Actuary meets the criteria in paragraphs 35(a) to (e).

37.   The criteria in paragraphs 34 to 36 do not apply while:

      (a)    the APRA-regulated institution reasonably considers that there are
             exceptional circumstances;

      (b)    the APRA-regulated institution has promptly notified APRA of the
             eligibility criteria that are not satisfied and of the exceptional
             circumstances as to why they do not apply; and

      (c)    APRA has notified the APRA-regulated institution in writing that APRA
             has no objections to the person holding the position.

Process for assessment of fitness and propriety

38.   The Fit and Proper Policy must include the processes to be undertaken in
      assessing whether a person is fit and proper for a responsible person position
      (fit and proper assessment). The processes must include details of:

      (a)    a statement of who will conduct fit and proper assessments on behalf of
             the APRA-regulated institution;

      (b)    the information to be obtained and how it will be obtained;

      (c)    the matters that will be considered before determining if a person is fit and
             proper for a responsible person position; and

      (d)    the decision-making processes that will be followed.

39.   The Fit and Proper Policy must specify the actions to be taken where a person is
      assessed as being not fit and proper.


23
      ‘Fellow’ and ‘Accredited Member’ as defined by the Institute of Actuaries of Australia.



                                                                                     CPS 520 - 13
                           Authorised Version F2018L01390 registered 02/10/2018
                                                                                     July 2019


40.   The Fit and Proper Policy must provide that a copy of the Policy is to be given
      to:

      (a)   any candidate for election as a director as soon as possible after the
            candidate is nominated; and

      (b)   any other person before an assessment of their fitness and propriety is
            conducted.

41.   The Fit and Proper Policy must require a fit and proper assessment to be
      completed before a person becomes the holder of a responsible person position
      unless they hold the position:

      (a)   because of a resolution of members of the APRA-regulated institution; or

      (b)   because APRA has determined that the person is a responsible person
            under paragraph 22.

      In such cases, the Fit and Proper Policy must require an assessment to be
      completed within 28 days of the person becoming the holder of the responsible
      person position or 28 days after APRA makes the determination under
      paragraph 22.

42.   Interim appointment to a responsible person position may be made without a
      full fit and proper assessment for a period of up to 90 days (or longer with
      APRA’s written agreement) including any prior period of interim appointment.
      Prior to making such an appointment, reasonable steps must be taken, as
      specified in the Fit and Proper Policy, to assess the fitness and propriety of the
      person. The APRA-regulated institution must complete a full fit and proper
      assessment prior to appointing the person to the responsible person position on a
      permanent basis.

43.   The Fit and Proper Policy must require annual fit and proper assessments (or as
      close to annual as is practicable) for each responsible person position.

44.   When a fit and proper assessment is conducted, an APRA-regulated institution
      must make all reasonable enquiries24 to obtain information, including collecting
      sensitive information as defined in the Privacy Act 1988 (Privacy Act), that it
      believes may be relevant to an assessment of whether the person is fit and
      proper to hold a responsible person position.

45.   Where a responsible person has been assessed as fit and proper, but the APRA-
      regulated institution subsequently becomes aware of information that may result
      in the person being assessed as not fit and proper, the APRA-regulated
      institution must take all reasonable steps, including collecting sensitive
      information as defined in the Privacy Act if relevant, to ensure that it can
      prudently conclude that no material fitness and propriety concern exists. Where
      a concern exists, a full fit and proper assessment must be conducted.

24
      Including following the processes described in the Fit and Proper Policy under subparagraph
      38(b).



                                                                                 CPS 520 - 14
                          Authorised Version F2018L01390 registered 02/10/2018
                                                                                          July 2019


46.   The Fit and Proper Policy must contain adequate provisions:

      (a)      to encourage any person to disclose information that may be relevant to a
               fit and proper assessment to the APRA-regulated institution or to APRA;

      (b)      to enable the disclosure to APRA of any information the APRA-regulated
               institution is required to provide under this Prudential Standard; and

      (c)      for giving or obtaining any consents required for the collection and use of
               any information:

            (i)     by the APRA-regulated institution to comply with the Fit and Proper
                    Policy or this Prudential Standard; and

            (ii)    by APRA for its powers and functions under the Prudential Acts and
                    the PHIPS Act.

47.   The Fit and Proper Policy must require that sufficient documentation for each fit
      and proper assessment is retained to demonstrate the fitness and propriety of the
      institution’s current, and recently past, responsible persons.

Whistleblowing25

48.   The Fit and Proper Policy must include adequate provisions to allow
      whistleblowing if a person has information that a responsible person does not
      meet the APRA-regulated institution’s fit and proper criteria. The Fit and Proper
      Policy must ensure that the APRA-regulated institution and its subsidiaries
      consent to the person providing that information to either the person responsible
      for conducting fit and proper assessments or APRA.

49.   The Fit and Proper Policy must include adequate provisions to allow persons
      who have information that the APRA-regulated institution has not complied
      with this Prudential Standard to provide that information to APRA.

50.   The Fit and Proper Policy must provide that the APRA-regulated institution and
      its subsidiaries consent to any person who held a responsible person position
      disclosing information or providing documents to APRA relating to their
      reasons for resignation, retirement or removal.

51.   An APRA-regulated institution must not, and must ensure that its subsidiaries
      do not, constrain, impede, restrict or discourage, whether by confidentiality
      clauses, policies or other means, any person from disclosing information or
      providing documents to APRA about matters referred to in paragraphs 48 to
      50.26

25
      Also refer to the provisions for the protection of whistleblowers in Part VIA, Division 1 of the
      Banking Act, Part IIIA, Division 4 of the Insurance Act, and Part 7, Division 5 of the Life
      Insurance Act, and the provisions in CPS 510 for not constraining persons from providing
      information.
26
      Refer also to section 52C of the Banking Act, section 38C of the Insurance Act and section
      156C of the Life Insurance Act.



                                                                                     CPS 520 - 15
                           Authorised Version F2018L01390 registered 02/10/2018
                                                                                           July 2019


52.   The Fit and Proper Policy must require that all provisions of the Policy
      encouraging whistleblowing, and the procedures related to whistleblowing, are
      adequately explained to directors and employees of the APRA-regulated
      institution and its subsidiaries who are likely to have information relevant to fit
      and proper assessments.

53.   APRA does not require that an APRA-regulated institution impose an obligation
      on any person to make the disclosures under paragraphs 48 to 50. However, the
      Fit and Proper Policy must require that all reasonable steps be taken to ensure
      that no person making such disclosures in good faith is subject to, or threatened
      with, a detriment because of any notification in purported compliance with the
      requirements of the Fit and Proper Policy.

When a responsible person is not fit and proper

54.   Where an APRA-regulated institution has assessed that a person is not fit and
      proper, or a reasonable person in the APRA-regulated institution’s position
      would make that assessment, the APRA-regulated institution must take all steps
      it reasonably can to ensure that the person:27

      (a)    is not appointed to; or

      (b)    for an existing responsible person, does not continue to hold,

      the responsible person position.

Informing APRA

55.   An APRA-regulated institution must notify APRA of the following information
      for each responsible person:

      (a)    the title of the responsible person’s position;

      (b)    the person’s full name;

      (c)    the person’s date of birth (for identification purposes only);

      (d)    the person’s position and main responsibilities; and

      (e)    a statement of whether the person has been assessed under the Fit and
             Proper Policy.

56.   An APRA-regulated institution must ensure that the information provided under
      paragraph 55 remains correct for all of its responsible persons. Subject to the
      Prudential Acts and the PHIPS Act, it must provide revised information to
      APRA within 28 days of any change or new appointment.

57.   An APRA-regulated institution must notify APRA within 10 business days if it
      assesses that a responsible person is not fit and proper. If the person remains in

27
      Including the actions outlined in the Fit and Proper Policy in accordance with paragraph 39.



                                                                                      CPS 520 - 16
                            Authorised Version F2018L01390 registered 02/10/2018
                                                                                   July 2019


      the responsible person position, the notification must state the reason for this
      and the action that is being taken.

58.   The information or notifications required by this Prudential Standard must be
      given in such form, if any, and by such procedures, if any, as APRA publishes
      on its website from time to time.

59.   An APRA-regulated institution must take reasonable steps to:

      (a)   obtain any information and documentation that APRA asks of it; and

      (b)   provide that information to APRA,

      to assist APRA in assessing the fitness and propriety of a person. This could
      include providing the Fit and Proper Policy to APRA on request.

60.   APRA does not and will not require disclosure of spent convictions where
      precluded under Part VIIC of the Crimes Act 1914.

Adjustments and exclusions

61.   APRA may adjust or exclude a specific prudential requirement in this Prudential
      Standard in relation to an APRA-regulated institution.28

Determinations made under previous prudential standards

62.   An exercise of APRA’s discretion (such as an approval, waiver or direction)
      under a previous version of this Prudential Standard continues to have effect as
      though exercised pursuant to a corresponding power (if any) exercisable by
      APRA under this Prudential Standard. For the purposes of this paragraph, ‘a
      previous version of this Prudential Standard’ includes any versions of:

      (a)   Prudential Standard APS 520 Fit and Proper;

      (b)   Prudential Standard GPS 520 Fit and Proper; and

      (c)   Prudential Standard LPS 520 Fit and Proper.




28
      Refer to subsection 11AF(2) of the Banking Act, subsection 32(3D) of the Insurance Act,
      subsection 230A(4) of the Life Insurance Act and section 92 of the PHIPS Act.



                                                                                CPS 520 - 17
                         Authorised Version F2018L01390 registered 02/10/2018
                                                                                   July 2019


Attachment A - Responsible persons of authorised
deposit-taking institutions and authorised banking
NOHCs

1.   A responsible person of an ADI (other than a foreign ADI) or authorised
     banking NOHC is any person who is:

     (a)   a director of the APRA-regulated institution;

     (b)   a senior manager of the institution;

     (c)   an appointed auditor who provides any report in relation to the ADI that is
           required to be prepared by an auditor under the Banking Act, prudential
           standards made under the Banking Act or reporting standards under
           FSCODA;

     (d)   an appointed auditor who provides any report in relation to the authorised
           banking NOHC that is required to be prepared by an auditor under the
           Banking Act, prudential standards made under the Banking Act or
           reporting standards; or

     (e)   a person who performs activities for a subsidiary of the APRA-regulated
           institution where those activities could materially affect the whole, or a
           substantial part, of the business of the APRA-regulated institution or its
           financial standing, either directly or indirectly.

2.   References to a subsidiary in subparagraph 1(e) of this Attachment do not apply
     to      a       subsidiary       that     is        an       RSE       licensee.




                                                                 CPS 520 – Attachment G - 18

                       Authorised Version F2018L01390 registered 02/10/2018
                                                                                      July 2019


Attachment B - Responsible persons of foreign
authorised deposit-taking institutions

1.   A responsible person of a foreign ADI is any person who is:

     (a)      a senior manager of the Australian operations of the foreign ADI who is,
              except in the case of the senior officer outside Australia referred to in
              paragraph 25(d) of this Prudential Standard, ordinarily resident in
              Australia;

     (b)      an appointed auditor of the foreign ADI; or

     (c)      a person who performs activities for a subsidiary of the foreign ADI that
              the foreign ADI controls as part of its Australian operations, where:

           (i)     those activities could materially affect the whole, or a substantial
                   part, of the business of the Australian operations of the foreign ADI
                   or its financial standing, either directly or indirectly; and

           (ii)    the person is ordinarily resident in Australia.

2.   References to a subsidiary in subparagraph 1(c) of this Attachment do not apply
     to      a       subsidiary       that     is        an       RSE       licensee.




                                                                    CPS 520 – Attachment G - 19

                          Authorised Version F2018L01390 registered 02/10/2018
                                                                                   July 2019


Attachment C - Responsible persons of general
insurers and authorised insurance NOHCs

1.   A responsible person of a general insurer (other than a Category C insurer) or
     authorised insurance NOHC is any person who is:

     (a)   a director of the APRA-regulated institution;

     (b)   a senior manager of the institution;

     (c)   for a general insurer, the Appointed Auditor;

     (d)   for a general insurer, the Appointed Actuary and the Reviewing Actuary;

     (e)   a responsible auditor who provides any report in relation to the authorised
           insurance NOHC that is required to be prepared by an auditor under the
           Insurance Act, prudential standards made under the Insurance Act or
           reporting standards under FSCODA; or

     (f)   a person who performs activities for a subsidiary of the APRA-regulated
           institution where those activities may materially affect the whole, or a
           substantial part, of the business of the APRA-regulated institution or its
           financial standing, either directly or indirectly.

2.   References to a subsidiary in subparagraph 1(f) of this Attachment do not apply
     to      a       subsidiary       that     is        an       RSE       licensee.




                                                                 CPS 520 – Attachment G - 20

                       Authorised Version F2018L01390 registered 02/10/2018
                                                                                      July 2019


Attachment D - Responsible persons of Category C
insurers

1.   A responsible person of a Category C insurer is any person who is:

     (a)      a senior manager of the Category C insurer who is, except in the case of
              the senior officer outside Australia referred to in paragraph 25(d) of this
              Prudential Standard, ordinarily resident in Australia;

     (b)      the Category C insurer’s agent in Australia where the agent in Australia
              is an individual29;

     (c)      a director of the Category C insurer’s agent in Australia where the agent in
              Australia is a corporate agent;

     (d)      a senior manager of the Category C insurer’s agent in Australia where the
              agent in Australia is a corporate agent;

     (e)      the Appointed Auditor of the Category C insurer;

     (f)      the Appointed Actuary and the Reviewing Actuary of the Category C
              insurer; or

     (g)      a person who performs activities for a subsidiary of the Category C
              insurer that the Category C insurer controls as part of its Australian
              operations, where:

           (i)      those activities may materially affect the whole, or a substantial
                    part, of the business of the Category C insurer or its financial
                    standing, either directly or indirectly; and

           (ii)     the person is ordinarily resident in Australia.

2.   References to a subsidiary in subparagraph 1(g) of this Attachment do not apply
     to      a       subsidiary       that      is       an       RSE       licensee.




29
     Note that ‘agent in Australia’ in this Prudential Standard includes a person appointed under
     subsection 118(2), (3) or (3A) of the Insurance Act to act as agent on a temporary basis.


                                                                    CPS 520 – Attachment G - 21

                          Authorised Version F2018L01390 registered 02/10/2018
                                                                                    July 2019


Attachment E - Responsible persons                                               of     life
companies and registered life NOHCs

1.   A responsible person of a life company (other than an EFLIC) or registered life
     NOHC is any person who is:

     (a)   a director of the APRA-regulated institution;

     (b)   a senior manager of the institution;

     (c)   for a life company, the Auditor;

     (d)   for a life company, the Appointed Actuary;

     (e)   a responsible auditor who is required, in relation to a registered life
           NOHC, to prepare a report under the Life Insurance Act, prudential
           standards made under the Life Insurance Act or reporting standards under
           FSCODA; or

     (f)   a person who performs activities for a subsidiary of the life company or
           registered life NOHC where those activities may materially affect the
           whole, or a substantial part, of the business of the life company or
           registered life NOHC or its financial standing, either directly or
           indirectly.

2.   References to a subsidiary in subparagraph 1(f) of this Attachment do not apply
     to      a       subsidiary       that     is        an       RSE       licensee.




                                                                 CPS 520 – Attachment G - 22

                       Authorised Version F2018L01390 registered 02/10/2018
                                                                                     July 2019


Attachment F - Responsible persons of eligible
foreign life insurance companies

1.   A responsible person of an EFLIC is any person who is:

     (a)      a member of the Compliance Committee of the EFLIC;

     (b)      a senior manager of the Australian operations of the EFLIC who is
              ordinarily resident in Australia;

     (c)      the Auditor of the EFLIC;

     (d)      the Appointed Actuary of the EFLIC; or

     (e)      a person who performs activities for a subsidiary of the EFLIC that the
              EFLIC controls as part of its Australian operations, where:

           (i)     those activities may materially affect the whole, or a substantial
                   part, of the business of the Australian operations of the EFLIC or its
                   financial standing, either directly or indirectly; and

           (ii)    where the person is ordinarily resident in Australia.

2.   References to a subsidiary in subparagraph 1(e) of this Attachment do not apply
     to a subsidiary that is an RSE licensee.




                                                                   CPS 520 – Attachment G - 23

                         Authorised Version F2018L01390 registered 02/10/2018
                                                                                    July 2019


Attachment G – Responsible persons of private health
insurers

1.   A responsible person of a private health insurer is any person who is:

     (a)   a director of the private health insurer;

     (b)   an officer of the private health insurer;

     (c)   an Appointed Auditor who provides any report in relation to the private
           health insurer that is required to be prepared by an auditor under the
           prudential standards made under the PHIPS Act or reporting standards
           under FSCODA;

     (d)   the Appointed Actuary;

     (e)   any person who performs activities for a subsidiary of the APRA-
           regulated institution where those activities could materially affect the
           whole, or a substantial part, of the business of the APRA-regulated
           institution or its financial standing, either directly or indirectly.

2.   References to a subsidiary in subparagraph 1(e) of this Attachment do not apply
     to a subsidiary that is an RSE licensee.




                                                                  CPS 520 – Attachment G - 24

                        Authorised Version F2018L01390 registered 02/10/2018
