SOURCE: https://www.legislation.gov.au/F2018L01745/asmade/2018-12-12/text/original/pdf
FINAL URL: https://www.legislation.gov.au/F2018L01745/asmade/2018-12-12/text/original/pdf
FETCHED: 2026-10-08

Banking, Insurance, Life Insurance, Health Insurance
and Superannuation (prudential standard)
determination No. 1 of 2018

Prudential Standard CPS 234 Information Security

Banking Act 1959
Insurance Act 1973
Life Insurance Act 1995
Private Health Insurance (Prudential Supervision) Act 2015
Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993

I, Geoff Summerhayes, delegate of APRA:

(a)   under subsection 11AF(1) of the Banking Act 1959, DETERMINE Prudential
      Standard CPS 234 Information Security in the form set out in the Schedule,
      which applies to all ADIs and authorised banking NOHCs;

(b)   under subsection 32(1) of the Insurance Act 1973 DETERMINE Prudential
      Standard CPS 234 Information Security in the form set out in the Schedule,
      which applies to all general insurers and authorised insurance NOHCs;

(c)   under subsection 230A(1) of the Life Insurance Act 1995 DETERMINE
      Prudential Standard CPS 234 Information Security in the form set out in the
      Schedule, which applies to all life companies, including friendly societies, and
      registered life NOHCs;

(d)   under subsection 92(1) of the Private Health Insurance (Prudential
      Supervision) Act 2015 DETERMINE Prudential Standard CPS 234 Information
      Security in the form set out in the Schedule, which applies to all private health
      insurers; and

(e)   under subsection 34C(1) of the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993
      DETERMINE Prudential Standard CPS 234 Information Security in the form
      set out in the Schedule, which applies to all RSE licensees.

This instrument commences on 1 July 2019.



                        Authorised Version F2018L01745 registered 12/12/2018
Dated: 30 November 2018

[Signed]

Geoff Summerhayes
Member



Interpretation
In this Determination:
ADI has the meaning in section 5 of the Banking Act 1959.
APRA means the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority.
authorised banking NOHC has the meaning given to the expression authorised
NOHC in section 5 of the Banking Act 1959.
authorised deposit-taking institution has the meaning given in section 5 of the
Banking Act 1959.
authorised insurance NOHC has the meaning given to the expression authorised
NOHC in subsection 3(1) of the Insurance Act 1973.
friendly society has the meaning given in section 16C of the Life Insurance Act 1995.
general insurer has the meaning given in section 11 of the Insurance Act 1973.
life company has the meaning given in the Schedule to the Life Insurance Act 1995.
private health insurer has the meaning given in section 4 of the Private Health
Insurance (Prudential Supervision) Act 2015.
registered life NOHC has the meaning given to the expression registered NOHC in
the Schedule to the Life Insurance Act 1995.
RSE licensee has the meaning given in section 10 of the Superannuation Industry
(Supervision) Act 1993.



Schedule
Prudential Standard CPS 234 Information Security comprises the document
commencing on the following page.




                         Authorised Version F2018L01745 registered 12/12/2018
                                                                                July 2019




Prudential Standard CPS 234
Information Security
Objectives and key requirements of this Prudential
Standard

This Prudential Standard aims to ensure that an APRA-regulated entity takes
measures to be resilient against information security incidents (including cyber-
attacks) by maintaining an information security capability commensurate with
information security vulnerabilities and threats.

A key objective is to minimise the likelihood and impact of information security
incidents on the confidentiality, integrity or availability of information assets,
including information assets managed by related parties or third parties.

The Board of an APRA-regulated entity is ultimately responsible for ensuring that the
entity maintains its information security.

The key requirements of this Prudential Standard are that an APRA-regulated entity
must:

    clearly define the information security-related roles and responsibilities of the
     Board, senior management, governing bodies and individuals;
    maintain an information security capability commensurate with the size and
     extent of threats to its information assets, and which enables the continued
     sound operation of the entity;
    implement controls to protect its information assets commensurate with the
     criticality and sensitivity of those information assets, and undertake systematic
     testing and assurance regarding the effectiveness of those controls; and
    notify APRA of material information security incidents.




                                                                              CPS 234 – 1
                       Authorised Version F2018L01745 registered 12/12/2018
                                                                                             July 2019


Authority

1.   This Prudential Standard is made under:

     (a)    section 11AF of the Banking Act 1959 (Banking Act);

     (b)    section 32 of the Insurance Act 1973 (Insurance Act);

     (c)    section 230A of the Life Insurance Act 1995 (Life Insurance Act);

     (d)    section 92 of the Private Health Insurance (Prudential Supervision) Act
            2015 (PHIPS Act); and

     (e)    section 34C of the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993
            (SIS Act).

Application

2.   This Prudential Standard applies to all ‘APRA-regulated entities’ defined as:

     (a)    authorised deposit-taking institutions (ADIs), including foreign ADIs,
            and non-operating holding companies authorised under the Banking Act
            (authorised banking NOHCs);

     (b)    general insurers, including Category C insurers, non-operating holding
            companies authorised under the Insurance Act (authorised insurance
            NOHCs), and parent entities of Level 2 insurance groups;

     (c)    life companies, including friendly societies, eligible foreign life
            insurance companies (EFLICs) and non-operating holding companies
            registered under the Life Insurance Act (registered life NOHCs);

     (d)    private health insurers registered under the PHIPS Act; and

     (e)    RSE licensees under the SIS Act in respect of their business operations.1

3.   The obligations imposed by this Prudential Standard on, or in relation to, a
     foreign ADI, a Category C insurer or an EFLIC apply only in relation to the
     Australian branch operations of that entity.

4.   Where an APRA-regulated entity is the ‘Head of a group’,2 it must comply with
     a requirement of this Prudential Standard:

     (a)    in its capacity as an APRA-regulated entity;


1
     For the purposes of this Prudential Standard, an ‘RSE licensee’s business operations’ includes
     all activities of an RSE licensee (including the activities of each RSE of which it is the licensee),
     and all other activities of the RSE licensee to the extent that they are relevant to, or may impact
     on, its activities as an RSE licensee.
2
     Where a Level 2 group operates within a Level 3 group, a requirement expressed as applying to
     a Head of a group is to be read as applying to the Level 3 Head.



                                                                                         CPS 234 – 2
                            Authorised Version F2018L01745 registered 12/12/2018
                                                                                 July 2019


      (b)   by ensuring that the requirement is applied appropriately throughout the
            group, including in relation to entities that are not APRA-regulated; and

      (c)   on a group basis.

      In applying the requirements of this Prudential Standard on a group basis,
      references in paragraphs 13 to 36 to an ‘APRA-regulated entity’ are to be read
      as ‘Head of a group’ and references to ‘entity’ are to be read as ‘group’.

5.    This Prudential Standard commences on 1 July 2019, subject to paragraph 6.

6.    Where an APRA-regulated entity’s information assets are managed by a third
      party, the requirements in this Prudential Standard will apply in relation to those
      information assets from the earlier of the next renewal date of the contract with
      the third party or 1 July 2020.

Interpretation

7.    Terms that are defined in Prudential Standard APS 001 Definitions (APS 001),
      Prudential Standard GPS 001 Definitions (GPS 001), Prudential Standard
      LPS 001 Definitions, Prudential Standard HPS 001 Definitions or Prudential
      Standard 3PS 001 Definitions appear in bold the first time they are used in this
      Prudential Standard.

8.    In this Prudential Standard, unless the contrary intention appears, a reference to
      an Act, Regulation or Prudential Standard is a reference to the Act, Regulation
      or Prudential Standard as in force from time to time.

9.    Where this Prudential Standard provides for APRA to exercise a power or
      discretion, the power or discretion is to be exercised in writing.

10.   For the purposes of this Prudential Standard:

      ‘group’ means a Level 2 group or a Level 3 group, as relevant;

      ‘Head of a group’ means a Level 2 Head or Level 3 Head, as relevant;

      ‘Level 2 group’ means the entities that comprise:

      (a)   Level 2 as defined in APS 001; or

      (b)   a Level 2 insurance group as defined in GPS 001;

      ‘Level 2 Head’ means:

      (a)   where an ADI that is a member of a Level 2 group is not a subsidiary of
            an authorised banking NOHC or another ADI, that ADI;

      (b)   where an ADI that is a member of a Level 2 group is a subsidiary of an
            authorised banking NOHC, that authorised banking NOHC; or

      (c)   the parent entity of a Level 2 insurance group as defined in GPS 001.


                                                                               CPS 234 – 3
                        Authorised Version F2018L01745 registered 12/12/2018
                                                                                        July 2019


Adjustments and exclusions

11.   APRA may adjust or exclude a specific prudential requirement in this Prudential
      Standard in relation to an APRA-regulated entity.3

Definitions

12.   The following definitions are used in this Prudential Standard:

      (a)   availability refers to accessibility and usability when required;

      (b)   confidentiality refers to access being restricted only to those authorised;

      (c)   criticality refers to the potential impact of a loss of availability;

      (d)   information asset means information and information technology,
            including software, hardware and data (both soft and hard copy);

      (e)   information security means the preservation of an information asset’s
            confidentiality, integrity and availability;

      (f)   information security capability means the totality of resources, skills and
            controls which provide the ability and capacity to maintain information
            security;

      (g)   information security control means a prevention, detection or response
            measure to reduce the likelihood or impact of an information security
            incident;

      (h)   information security incident means an actual or potential compromise of
            information security;

      (i)   information security policy framework means the totality of policies,
            standards, guidelines and procedures pertaining to information security;

      (j)   information security threat (threat) is a circumstance or event that has the
            potential to exploit an information security vulnerability;

      (k)   information security vulnerability (vulnerability) is a weakness in an
            information asset or information security control that could be exploited to
            compromise information security;

      (l)   integrity refers to completeness, accuracy and freedom from unauthorised
            change or usage; and

      (m) sensitivity means the potential impact of a loss of confidentiality or
          integrity.


3
      Refer to subsection 11AF(2) of the Banking Act, subsection 32(3D) of the Insurance Act,
      subsection 230A(4) of the Life Insurance Act, subsection 92(4) of the PHIPS Act and subsection
      34C(5) of the SIS Act.



                                                                                     CPS 234 – 4
                           Authorised Version F2018L01745 registered 12/12/2018
                                                                                           July 2019


Roles and responsibilities
13.   The Board4 of an APRA-regulated entity (Board) is ultimately responsible for
      the information security of the entity. The Board must ensure that the entity
      maintains information security in a manner commensurate with the size and
      extent of threats to its information assets, and which enables the continued
      sound operation of the entity.5

14.   An APRA-regulated entity must clearly define the information security-related
      roles and responsibilities of the Board, senior management, governing bodies
      and individuals with responsibility for decision-making, approval, oversight,
      operations and other information security functions.6

Information security capability

15.   An APRA-regulated entity must maintain an information security capability
      commensurate with the size and extent of threats to its information assets, and
      which enables the continued sound operation of the entity.

16.   Where information assets are managed by a related party or third party, the
      APRA-regulated entity must assess the information security capability of that
      party, commensurate with the potential consequences of an information security
      incident affecting those assets.7

17.   An APRA-regulated entity must actively maintain its information security
      capability with respect to changes in vulnerabilities and threats, including those
      resulting from changes to information assets or its business environment.

Policy framework

18.   An APRA-regulated entity must maintain an information security policy
      framework commensurate with its exposures to vulnerabilities and threats.

19.   An APRA-regulated entity’s information security policy framework must
      provide direction on the responsibilities of all parties who have an obligation to
      maintain information security.8



4
      For an RSE licensee, a reference to the Board is to be read as a reference to the Board of
      directors or group of individual trustees of an RSE licensee, as applicable. ‘Group of individual
      trustees’ has the meaning given in subsection 10(1) of the SIS Act.
5
      A reference to the Board in the case of a foreign ADI, is a reference to the senior officer
      outside Australia.
6
      For the purposes of this Prudential Standard, governing bodies and individuals includes
      committees, working groups and forums.
7
      For the avoidance of doubt, paragraph 16 of this Prudential Standard applies to all information
      assets managed by related parties and third parties, not only those captured under agreements
      with service providers of outsourced material business activities under Prudential Standard CPS
      231 Outsourcing or Prudential Standard SPS 231 Outsourcing.
8
      For the purpose of paragraph 19 of this Prudential Standard, parties includes governing bodies
      and individuals with responsibilities referred to in paragraph 14, as well as all other staff,
      contractors, consultants, related parties, third parties and customers.



                                                                                       CPS 234 – 5
                            Authorised Version F2018L01745 registered 12/12/2018
                                                                                         July 2019


Information asset identification and classification

20.   An APRA-regulated entity must classify its information assets, including those
      managed by related parties and third parties, by criticality and sensitivity. This
      classification must reflect the degree to which an information security incident
      affecting an information asset has the potential to affect, financially or non-
      financially, the entity or the interests of depositors, policyholders, beneficiaries
      or other customers.

Implementation of controls

21.   An APRA-regulated entity must have information security controls to protect its
      information assets, including those managed by related parties and third parties,
      that are implemented in a timely manner and that are commensurate with:

      (a)   vulnerabilities and threats to the information assets;

      (b)   the criticality and sensitivity of the information assets;

      (c)   the stage at which the information assets are within their life-cycle;9 and

      (d)   the potential consequences of an information security incident.

22.   Where an APRA-regulated entity’s information assets are managed by a related
      party or third party, the APRA-regulated entity must evaluate the design of that
      party’s information security controls that protects the information assets of the
      APRA-regulated entity.10

Incident management

23.   An APRA-regulated entity must have robust mechanisms in place to detect and
      respond to information security incidents in a timely manner.

24.   An APRA-regulated entity must maintain plans to respond to information
      security incidents that the entity considers could plausibly occur (information
      security response plans).

25.   An APRA-regulated entity’s information security response plans must include
      the mechanisms in place for:

      (a)   managing all relevant stages of an incident, from detection to post-
            incident review; and



9
      The use of the term ‘life-cycle’ in this context refers to the process from planning and design
      through to decommissioning and disposal of an information asset.
10
      For the avoidance of doubt, paragraph 22 of this Prudential Standard applies to all information
      assets managed by related parties and third parties, not only those captured under agreements
      with service providers of outsourced material business activities under Prudential Standard CPS
      231 Outsourcing or Prudential Standard SPS 231 Outsourcing.




                                                                                     CPS 234 – 6
                           Authorised Version F2018L01745 registered 12/12/2018
                                                                                         July 2019


      (b)   escalation and reporting of information security incidents to the Board,
            other governing bodies and individuals responsible for information
            security incident management and oversight, as appropriate.

26.   An APRA-regulated entity must annually review and test its information
      security response plans to ensure they remain effective and fit-for-purpose.

Testing control effectiveness

27.   An APRA-regulated entity must test the effectiveness of its information security
      controls through a systematic testing program. The nature and frequency of the
      systematic testing must be commensurate with:

      (a)   the rate at which the vulnerabilities and threats change;

      (b)   the criticality and sensitivity of the information asset;

      (c)   the consequences of an information security incident;

      (d)   the risks associated with exposure to environments where the APRA-
            regulated entity is unable to enforce its information security policies;11
            and

      (e)   the materiality and frequency of change to information assets.

28.   Where an APRA-regulated entity’s information assets are managed by a related
      party or a third party, and the APRA-regulated entity is reliant on that party’s
      information security control testing, the APRA-regulated entity must assess
      whether the nature and frequency of testing of controls in respect of those
      information assets is commensurate with paragraphs 27(a) to 27(e) of this
      Prudential Standard.12

29.   An APRA-regulated entity must escalate and report to the Board or senior
      management any testing results that identify information security control
      deficiencies that cannot be remediated in a timely manner.

30.   An APRA-regulated entity must ensure that             testing is conducted by
      appropriately skilled and functionally independent specialists.

31.   An APRA-regulated entity must review the sufficiency of the testing program at
      least annually or when there is a material change to information assets or the
      business environment.




11
      Also referred to as an ‘untrusted’ environment.
12
      For the avoidance of doubt, paragraph 28 of this Prudential Standard applies to all information
      assets managed by related parties and third parties, not only those captured under agreements
      with service providers of outsourced material business activities under Prudential Standard CPS
      231 Outsourcing or Prudential Standard SPS 231 Outsourcing.




                                                                                     CPS 234 – 7
                           Authorised Version F2018L01745 registered 12/12/2018
                                                                                          July 2019


Internal audit

32.   An APRA-regulated entity’s internal audit activities must include a review of
      the design and operating effectiveness of information security controls,
      including those maintained by related parties and third parties (information
      security control assurance).

33.   An APRA-regulated entity must ensure that the information security control
      assurance is provided by personnel appropriately skilled in providing such
      assurance.

34.   An APRA-regulated entity’s internal audit function must assess the information
      security control assurance provided by a related party or third party where:

      (a)    an information security incident affecting the information assets has the
             potential to materially affect, financially or non-financially, the entity or
             the interests of depositors, policyholders, beneficiaries or other customers;
             and

      (b)    internal audit intends to rely on the information security control assurance
             provided by the related party or third party.13

APRA notification

35.   An APRA-regulated entity must notify APRA as soon as possible and, in any
      case, no later than 72 hours, after becoming aware of an information security
      incident that:

      (a)    materially affected, or had the potential to materially affect, financially or
             non-financially, the entity or the interests of depositors, policyholders,
             beneficiaries or other customers; or

      (b)    has been notified to other regulators, either in Australia or other
             jurisdictions.14

36.   An APRA-regulated entity must notify APRA as soon as possible and, in any
      case, no later than 10 business days, after it becomes aware of a material
      information security control weakness which the entity expects it will not be
      able to remediate in a timely manner.



13
      For the avoidance of doubt, paragraph 34 of this Prudential Standard applies to all information
      assets managed by related parties and third parties, not only those captured under agreements
      with service providers of outsourced material business activities under Prudential Standard CPS
      231 Outsourcing or Prudential Standard SPS 231 Outsourcing.
14
      For the avoidance of doubt, paragraph 35 of this Prudential Standard applies to notifications of
      information security incidents not already captured as notifications under Prudential Standard
      CPS 231 Outsourcing, Prudential Standard SPS 231 Outsourcing, Prudential Standard CPS
      232 Business Continuity Management or Prudential Standard SPS 232 Business Continuity
      Management. Other regulators include domestic government agencies and international
      regulators.



                                                                                      CPS 234 – 8
                           Authorised Version F2018L01745 registered 12/12/2018
