SOURCE: https://www.legislation.gov.au/F2023L01348/asmade/2023-09-29/text/original/pdf
FINAL URL: https://www.legislation.gov.au/F2023L01348/asmade/2023-09-29/text/original/pdf
FETCHED: 2026-10-09

Banking, Insurance, Life Insurance, Health
Insurance and Superannuation (prudential
standard) determination No. 3 of 2023
Prudential Standard CPS 511 Remuneration

Banking Act 1959
Insurance Act 1973
Life Insurance Act 1995
Private Health Insurance (Prudential Supervision) Act 2015
Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993

I, John Lonsdale, a delegate of APRA:

(a)   under subsections 11AF(3) of the Banking Act 1959, 32(4) of the Insurance Act
      1973, 230A(5) of the Life Insurance Act 1995, 92(5) of the Private Health
      Insurance (Prudential Supervision) Act 2015 and 34C(6) of the Superannuation
      Industry (Supervision) Act 1993 REVOKE Banking, Insurance, Life Insurance,
      Health Insurance and Superannuation (prudential standard) determination No.
      1 of 2021, including Prudential Standard CPS 511 Remuneration made under
      that determination;

(b)   under subsection 11AF(1) of the Banking Act 1959 DETERMINE the prudential
      standard, which applies to all ADIs, excluding ADIs referred to in paragraph 2
      of the prudential standard, and authorised banking NOHCs;

(c)   under subsection 32(1) of the Insurance Act 1973 DETERMINE the prudential
      standard, which applies to all general insurers and authorised insurance
      NOHCs, and subsidiaries of general insurers or authorised insurance NOHCs
      where those subsidiaries are parent entities of Level 2 insurance groups;

(d)   under subsection 230A(1) of the Life Insurance Act 1995 DETERMINE the
      prudential standard, which applies to all life companies, including friendly
      societies, and registered NOHCs;

(e)   under subsection 92(1) of the Private Health Insurance (Prudential Supervision)
      Act 2015 DETERMINE the prudential standard, which applies to all private
      health insurers; and

(f)   under subsection 34C(1) of the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act
      1993 DETERMINE the prudential standard, which applies to all RSE licensees.




                        Authorised Version F2023L01348 registered 29/09/2023
This instrument commences on 1 January 2024.

Dated: 28 September 2023



John Lonsdale
Chair
APRA


Interpretation
In this Determination:
ADI has the meaning given in section 5 of the Banking Act 1959.
APRA means the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority.
authorised banking NOHC has the meaning given to the expression authorised
NOHC in section 5 of the Banking Act 1959.
authorised insurance NOHC has the meaning given to the expression authorised
NOHC in subsection 3(1) of the Insurance Act 1973.
friendly society has the meaning given in section 16C of the Life Insurance Act
       1995.
general insurer has the meaning given in section 11 of the Insurance Act 1973.
Level 2 insurance group has the meaning given in Prudential Standard GPS 001
Definitions.
life company has the meaning given in the Schedule to the Life Insurance Act 1995.
parent entity has the meaning given in Prudential Standard GPS 001 Definitions.
private health insurer has the meaning given in section 4 of the Private Health
Insurance (Prudential Supervision) Act 2015.
registered NOHC has the meaning given in the Schedule to the Life Insurance Act
1995.
RSE licensee has the meaning given in subsection 10(1) of the Superannuation
Industry (Supervision) Act 1993.
subsidiary has the meaning given in Prudential Standard GPS 001 Definitions.
the prudential standard means Prudential Standard CPS 511 Remuneration in the
form set out in the Schedule.



Schedule
Prudential Standard CPS 511 Remuneration comprises the document commencing
on the following page.




                         Authorised Version F2023L01348 registered 29/09/2023
                                                                               January 2024




Prudential Standard CPS 511
Remuneration
Objectives and key requirements of this Prudential
Standard

The objective of this Prudential Standard is to ensure that APRA-regulated entities
maintain remuneration arrangements which appropriately incentivise individuals to
prudently manage the risks they are responsible for, and that there are appropriate
consequences for poor risk outcomes.

The key requirements of this Prudential Standard are that:

     the Board of an APRA-regulated entity is responsible for the remuneration
     framework and its effective application, consistent with the size, business mix
     and complexity of the entity;

     an entity must maintain a remuneration framework that promotes effective
     management of financial and non-financial risks;

     remuneration outcomes must be commensurate with performance and risk
     outcomes;

     higher standards must be met for key roles and certain large, complex entities;
     and

     an APRA-regulated entity must make clear, comprehensive, meaningful,
     consistent and comparable public disclosures on remuneration.




                                                                                CPS 511 - 1
                        Authorised Version F2023L01348 registered 29/09/2023
                                                                                                   January 2024


Table of Contents

Authority ........................................................................................................... 3
Application ....................................................................................................... 3
Interpretation .................................................................................................... 5
Adjustments and exclusions............................................................................. 6
Previous exercise of discretion ........................................................................ 6
Definitions ........................................................................................................ 7
A. Requirements for SFIs ................................................................................. 9
Remuneration framework ................................................................................. 9
Role of the Board ........................................................................................... 10
Board Remuneration Committee.................................................................... 10
Remuneration design ..................................................................................... 11
Deferral .......................................................................................................... 13
Remuneration outcomes ................................................................................ 13
Specified roles ............................................................................................... 14
Review of the remuneration framework ......................................................... 15
Other requirements ........................................................................................ 16
Disclosures .................................................................................................... 17
B. Requirements for Non-SFIs ....................................................................... 25
Remuneration framework ............................................................................... 25
Role of the Board ........................................................................................... 25
Remuneration design ..................................................................................... 26
Remuneration outcomes ................................................................................ 27
Specified roles ............................................................................................... 27
Other requirements ........................................................................................ 28
Disclosures .................................................................................................... 28




                                                                                                      CPS 511 - 2
                                 Authorised Version F2023L01348 registered 29/09/2023
                                                                                      January 2024


Authority

1.   This Prudential Standard is made under:

     (a)    section 11AF of the Banking Act 1959 (Banking Act);

     (b)    section 32 of the Insurance Act 1973 (Insurance Act);

     (c)    section 230A of the Life Insurance Act 1995 (Life Insurance Act);

     (d)    section 92 of the Private Health Insurance (Prudential Supervision) Act
            2015 (PHIPS Act); and

     (e)    section 34C of the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993 (SIS
            Act).

Application

2.   Subject to paragraphs 3 and 4, and in accordance with paragraphs 9 to 11, this
     Prudential Standard applies to all APRA-regulated entities, defined as:

     (a)    authorised deposit taking institutions (ADIs), including foreign ADIs,
            and non-operating holding companies authorised under the Banking Act
            (authorised banking NOHCs) but excluding purchased payment facility
            providers;

     (b)    general insurers, including Category C insurers, non-operating holding
            companies authorised under the Insurance Act (authorised insurance
            NOHCs) and parent entities of Level 2 insurance groups;

     (c)    life companies, including friendly societies, eligible foreign life
            insurance companies (EFLICs) and registered NOHCs;

     (d)    private health insurers registered under the PHIPS Act; and

     (e)    registrable superannuation entity licensees (RSE licensees) under the
            SIS Act in respect of their business operations.1

3.   The obligations imposed by this Prudential Standard on, or in relation to, a
     foreign ADI, a Category C insurer or an EFLIC apply only in relation to the
     Australian branch operations of that entity.

4.   For the purposes of this Prudential Standard, an APRA-regulated entity is either
     a significant financial institution (SFI) or a non-significant financial


1
     For the purposes of this Prudential Standard, an ‘RSE licensee’ has the meaning given in
     subsection 10(1) of the SIS Act. An ‘RSE licensee’s business operations’ includes all activities
     of an RSE licensee (including the activities of each RSE of which it is the licensee), and all
     other activities of the RSE licensee to the extent that they are relevant to, or may impact on, its
     activities as an RSE licensee.




                                                                                        CPS 511 - 3
                           Authorised Version F2023L01348 registered 29/09/2023
                                                                                   January 2024


     institution (non-SFI). Unless APRA determines otherwise in a particular case, 2
     this Prudential Standard applies to these two classes of APRA-regulated entities
     as follows:

     (a)    paragraphs 1 to 20 apply to both SFIs and non-SFIs;

     (b)    paragraphs 21 to 73 apply only to SFIs; and

     (c)    paragraphs 74 to 98 apply only to non-SFIs.

5.   Subject to paragraph 7, where an entity is the ‘Head of a group’,3 it must
     comply with an applicable requirement of this Prudential Standard:

     (a)    in its capacity as an APRA-regulated entity;

     (b)    by ensuring that the requirement is applied appropriately throughout the
            group, including in relation to entities that are not APRA-regulated; and

     (c)    on a group basis.

6.   In applying the requirements of this Prudential Standard on a group basis,
     references in paragraphs 18 to 98 to an ‘APRA-regulated entity’ must be read as
     ‘Head of a group’ and references to ‘entity’ must be read as ‘group’.

7.   Unless otherwise determined by APRA, an APRA-regulated entity within a
     group is not required to make the disclosures required by this Prudential
     Standard on an individual entity or a Level 2 basis where:

     (a)    the APRA-regulated entity is part of a group headed by another APRA-
            regulated entity; and

     (b)    the other APRA-regulated as the Head of a group makes the required
            disclosures on a Level 2 basis or Level 3 basis, as applicable.

8.   This Prudential Standard does not apply to the extent it would require any entity
     to act (or not act) in a manner contrary to:

      (a)    the Fair Work Act 2009; and

      (b)    in relation to any employment contract or contract of appointment or
             engagement governed by foreign law, any applicable foreign legislation.

9.   For an ADI, by operation of the Legislation Act 2003, this Prudential Standard
     is to be read and construed subject to the Banking Act, including Part IIAA
     which imposes requirements relating to remuneration.


2
     This power is to be exercised under paragraph 18.
3
     Where a Level 2 group operates within a Level 3 group, a requirement expressed as applying to
     a Head of a group is to be read as applying to the Level 3 Head. For the avoidance of doubt, the
     reference to ‘Head of a group’ does not apply to an RSE licensee.




                                                                                      CPS 511 - 4
                          Authorised Version F2023L01348 registered 29/09/2023
                                                                                     January 2024




10.   Subject to paragraphs 11, 12 and 13, this Prudential Standard applies:

       (a)    to an ADI that is an SFI, or a group headed by an ADI or authorised
              banking NOHC that is an SFI, on 1 January 2023;

       (b)    to a general insurer, life company, private health insurer or RSE licensee
              that is an SFI, or a group headed by such an SFI, or a group headed by
              an authorised insurance NOHC, a parent entity of a Level 2 insurance
              group or a registered NOHC that is an SFI, on 1 July 2023; and

       (c)    to any other APRA-regulated entity on 1 January 2024.

11.   The disclosure requirements of this Prudential Standard, specified in paragraphs
      63-73 and paragraphs 91-98, apply to an APRA-regulated entity’s first full
      financial year that commences on or after 1 January 2024.

12.   This Prudential Standard does not apply to a person’s variable remuneration if
      the opportunity to earn the variable remuneration arose before the relevant
      commencement dates specified in paragraph 10.

13.   Despite paragraph 12, if:

       (a)    the person’s variable remuneration is payable under a contract entered
              into before the previous version of this Prudential Standard came into
              effect; and

       (b)    apart from this paragraph, the application of this Prudential Standard to
              the variable remuneration would result in an acquisition of property from
              the person other than on just terms (within the meaning of paragraph
              51(xxxi) of the Constitution);

      this Prudential Standard does not apply to the variable remuneration to the
      extent it would result in such an acquisition.4

Interpretation

14.   Terms that are defined in Prudential Standard 3PS 001 Definitions, Prudential
      Standard APS 001 Definitions (APS 001), Prudential Standard GPS 001
      Definitions (GPS 001), Prudential Standard LPS 001 Definitions (LPS 001) or
      Prudential Standard HPS 001 Definitions (HPS 001) appear in bold the first
      time they are used in this Prudential Standard.



4
      Given this paragraph prevents this Prudential Standard from giving rise to such an acquisition of
      property in relation to variable remuneration payable under such a contract, compensation will
      not be payable under section 69E of the Banking Act, section 127A of the Insurance Act, section
      251 of the Life Insurance Act or section 8 of the PHIPS Act. Equally, compensation would not
      be payable in respect of the superannuation sector noting section 349B of the SIS Act.



                                                                                        CPS 511 - 5
                            Authorised Version F2023L01348 registered 29/09/2023
                                                                                   January 2024


15.   In this Prudential Standard, unless the contrary intention appears, a reference to
      an Act, Regulations, Rules or Prudential Standard is a reference to the Act,
      Regulations, Rules or Prudential Standard as in force from time to time.

16.   Where this Prudential Standard provides for APRA to exercise a power or
      discretion, the power or discretion is to be exercised in writing.

17.   For the purposes of this Prudential Standard:

      (a)   group – means a Level 2 group, Level 3 group or a group comprising the
            RSE licensee and all connected entities5 and all related bodies corporate6
            of the RSE licensee, as relevant;7

      (b)   Head of a group – means a Level 2 Head or Level 3 Head, as relevant;

      (c)   Level 2 group – means the entities that comprise:

            (i)    Level 2 as defined in APS 001; or

            (ii)   a Level 2 insurance group as defined in GPS 001;

      (d)   Level 2 Head – means:

            (i)    where an ADI that is a member of a Level 2 group is not a
                   subsidiary of an authorised banking NOHC or another ADI, that
                   ADI;

            (ii)   where an ADI that is a member of a Level 2 group is a subsidiary of
                   an authorised banking NOHC, that authorised banking NOHC; or

            (iii) the parent entity of a Level 2 insurance group as defined in GPS
                  001;

Adjustments and exclusions

18.   APRA may adjust or exclude a specific requirement in this Prudential Standard
      in relation to an APRA-regulated entity.

Previous exercise of discretion

19.   An APRA-regulated entity must contact APRA if it seeks to place reliance, for
      the purposes of complying with this Prudential Standard, on a previous
      exemption or other exercise of discretion by APRA under Prudential Standard
      CPS 510 Governance or Prudential Standard SPS 510 Governance (SPS 510).


5
      A reference to a ‘connected entity’ has the meaning given in subsection 10(1) of the SIS Act.
6
      A reference to a ‘related body corporate’ has the meaning given in section 50 of the
      Corporations Act 2001 (Corporations Act).
7
      For the avoidance of doubt, a reference to ‘group’ also includes a group as defined in APS 001;
      For an RSE licensee, ‘group’ includes where an RSE licensee is part of a corporate group.




                                                                                      CPS 511 - 6
                           Authorised Version F2023L01348 registered 29/09/2023
                                                                                January 2024


Definitions

20.   The following definitions are used in this Prudential Standard:

      (a)   Board – for an RSE licensee, means a reference to the Board of directors
            or group of individual trustees of an RSE licensee where ‘group of
            individual trustees’ has the meaning given in subsection 10(1) of the SIS
            Act;

      (b)   clawback – means the recovery of an amount corresponding to some or all
            variable remuneration subject to recovery that has been paid or vested to a
            person;

      (c)   conduct risk – means the risk associated with misconduct;

      (d)   consequence management – means the approach to managing
            performance, risk and conduct outcomes, which may include downward
            adjustments to variable remuneration;

      (e)   executive director – means a director that is not a non-executive director;

      (f)   financial measures – means measures that are based on revenue, sales,
            profit, the entity’s share price, or other measures that directly affect these;

      (g)   highly paid material risk-taker – means a material risk-taker whose total
            fixed remuneration (which includes salary, superannuation, allowances
            and benefits) plus actual variable remuneration is equal to or greater than
            1 million AUD in a financial year of the entity;

      (h)   in-period adjustment – means an adjustment made to variable
            remuneration during the period set for measuring the performance under a
            variable remuneration arrangement;

      (i)   independent director – means a director defined as independent in
            Prudential Standard CPS 510 Governance and in subsection 10(1) of the
            SIS Act;

      (j)   malus – means an adjustment to reduce the value of all or part of deferred
            variable remuneration before it has vested;

      (k)   material risk-taker – means a person whose activities have a material
            potential impact on the entity’s risk profile, performance and long-term
            soundness, and in addition for an RSE licensee, means a person whose
            activities have a material potential impact on performing its duties and
            exercising its powers in the best financial interests of beneficiaries;

      (l)   misconduct – means an action or inaction by a person covered by an
            entity’s remuneration policy that does not meet applicable:

            (i)    legal and prudential obligations;

            (ii)   requirements or standards of a recognised professional body; or


                                                                                 CPS 511 - 7
                         Authorised Version F2023L01348 registered 29/09/2023
                                                                               January 2024


          (iii) policies and procedures covering conduct and ethical standards set
                by the entity;

    (m) non-executive director – has the meaning given in Prudential Standard
        CPS 510 Governance and for an RSE licensee, Prudential Standard
        SPS 510 Governance;

    (n)   non-financial measures – means measures that are not financial measures;

    (o)   non-significant financial institution (non-SFI) – means, in relation to RSE
          licensees, an RSE licensee that is not an SFI;8

    (p)   relevant oversight function – means for foreign ADIs and Category C
          insurers, the senior officer outside Australia, and for EFLICs, the
          Compliance Committee;

    (q)   remuneration arrangement – means an arrangement that includes measures
          of performance, the mix of forms of remuneration (such as fixed and
          variable components, and cash and equity-related benefits) and the timing
          of eligibility to receive payments. All forms of remuneration are captured
          by this Prudential Standard, regardless of where, or from whom, the
          remuneration is sourced;

    (r)   remuneration framework – means the totality of systems, structures,
          policies, processes and people within an entity that identify, measure,
          evaluate, monitor, report and control or mitigate all internal and external
          sources of risks relating to remuneration;

    (s)   risk and financial control personnel – means persons whose primary role
          is in risk management, compliance, internal audit, financial control or
          actuarial control;

    (t)   senior manager –

          (i)    in relation to ADIs, has the meaning given in the Banking Act;

          (ii)   in relation to general insurers, has the meaning given in the
                 Insurance Act;

          (iii) in relation to life insurers, has the meaning given in the Life
                Insurance Act;

          (iv) in relation to private health insurers, means any person specified in
               paragraph (c) of the definition of officer in the PHIPS Act; and

          (v)    in relation to RSE licensees, has the meaning given in Prudential
                 Standard SPS 520 Fit and Proper;


8
    APS 001, GPS 001, LPS 001 and HPS 001 define this term in relation to other APRA-regulated
    entities.



                                                                                CPS 511 - 8
                        Authorised Version F2023L01348 registered 29/09/2023
                                                                                 January 2024


      (u)   significant financial institution (SFI) – means, in relation to RSE
            licensees, an RSE licensee that either:

            (i)    has total assets in excess of AUD $30 billion in the case of a single
                   RSE operated by an RSE licensee, or if the RSE licensee operates
                   more than one RSE where the combined total assets of all RSEs
                   exceed this amount; or

            (ii)   is determined as such by APRA, having regard to matters such as
                   complexity in its operations or its membership of a group;9

      (v)   specified role – means a person who is a senior manager, executive
            director, material risk-taker (including highly-paid material risk-takers)
            and risk and financial control personnel;

      (w) third-party service provider – means an entity that provides, under a
          compensation arrangement, a service to an APRA-regulated entity that is
          not a related body corporate or connected entity of the APRA-regulated
          entity;

      (x)   variable remuneration – means the amount of a person’s total
            remuneration that is conditional on objectives, which include performance
            criteria, service requirements or the passage of time; and

      (y)   vesting – means, in relation to variable remuneration, the process by
            which a person becomes the legal owner of the variable remuneration.

A. Requirements for SFIs

Remuneration framework

21.   An APRA-regulated entity must maintain a remuneration framework that:

      (a)   aligns with the entity’s business plan, strategic objectives and risk
            management framework;10

      (b)   promotes effective management of both financial and non-financial risks,
            sustainable performance and the entity’s long-term soundness;

      (c)   for an RSE licensee, promotes performing its duties and exercising its
            powers in the best financial interests of beneficiaries; and

      (d)   supports the prevention and mitigation of conduct risk.

22.   The remuneration framework must include a documented remuneration policy
      which at minimum sets out:


9
      APS 001, GPS 001, LPS 001 and HPS 001 define this term in relation to other APRA-regulated
      entities.
10
      As required under Prudential Standard CPS 220 Risk Management and for an RSE licensee
      Prudential Standard SPS 220 Risk Management.



                                                                                  CPS 511 - 9
                          Authorised Version F2023L01348 registered 29/09/2023
                                                                                January 2024


      (a)   how the remuneration framework addresses paragraph 21 of this
            Prudential Standard;

      (b)   at a high level, the structure and terms of remuneration arrangements that
            apply to a person who is:

            (i)    employed directly by the APRA-regulated entity;

            (ii)   retained directly by the APRA-regulated entity under contract; and

            (iii) employed by, or is a contractor of a body corporate (including a
                  service company) that is a related body corporate or connected
                  entity, of the APRA-regulated entity;

      (c)   the approach to identify and mitigate material conflicts to the objectives of
            the remuneration framework, as specified in paragraph 21 of this
            Prudential Standard, that may result from third-party service provider
            compensation arrangements; and

      (d)   the systems and processes that support the implementation of the entity’s
            remuneration arrangements, including those that cover the assessment and
            management of performance, conduct and consequences.

Role of the Board

23.   The Board, or relevant oversight function, of an APRA-regulated entity is
      ultimately responsible for the entity’s remuneration framework and its effective
      application.

24.   The Board, or relevant oversight function, must approve the remuneration
      policy required under paragraph 22 of this Prudential Standard.

25.   The Board must establish a Board Remuneration Committee that:

      (a)   oversees the design, operation and monitoring of the remuneration
            framework;

      (b)   is appropriately composed to enable it to exercise competent and
            independent judgment when fulfilling requirements under paragraph 25(a)
            above; and

      (c)   has the powers necessary to perform its functions.

Board Remuneration Committee

26.   The Board Remuneration Committee must have at least three members and all
      members must be non-executive directors of the entity.

27.   For an entity that is not an RSE licensee, a majority of members of the
      Committee must be independent and the chairperson of the Committee must be
      an independent director of the entity.



                                                                                CPS 511 - 10
                         Authorised Version F2023L01348 registered 29/09/2023
                                                                                 January 2024


28.   For an RSE licensee, the chairperson of the Board may sit on the Board
      Remuneration Committee, but may not chair the Committee except where the
      chairperson of the Board is the only independent director on the Board.

29.   The Board Remuneration Committee must have a written charter that sets out its
      roles, responsibilities and terms of operation.

30.   The Board Remuneration Committee, or relevant oversight function, must
      consult the Board Risk Committee11 and Chief Risk Officer or person in a
      similar role, to enable risk outcomes to be appropriately reflected in
      remuneration outcomes for persons in specified roles. This consultation must
      follow a documented process.

31.   The Board Remuneration Committee, or relevant oversight function, must
      obtain comprehensive reporting that will allow it to determine whether
      remuneration outcomes of all remuneration arrangements align with paragraph
      21 of this Prudential Standard.

32.   The Board Remuneration Committee, or relevant oversight function, in carrying
      out its duties must:

      (a)   have free and unfettered access to other Board committees;

      (b)   have free and unfettered access to risk and financial control personnel and
            other relevant parties (internal and external); and

      (c)   if choosing to engage third-party experts, have the power to do so in a
            manner that ensures that the engagement, including any advice received,
            is independent.

Remuneration design

33.   An APRA-regulated entity must design all variable remuneration arrangements
      to align with paragraph 21 of this Prudential Standard and must incorporate in
      its variable remuneration arrangements:

      (a)   financial and non-financial risks that could materially impact the entity’s
            risk profile, sustainable performance, long-term soundness, and in
            addition for an RSE licensee, those risks that could materially impact on
            performing its duties and exercising its powers in the best financial
            interests of beneficiaries;

      (b)   payout and vesting schedules that are commensurate with the possible
            range of risk and performance outcomes and that are sensitive to the time
            horizon of risk; and



11
      For an RSE licensee, as set out in SPS 510, another Board Committee may carry out this
      function with respect to risk management. Consultation with a Board Risk Committee does not
      apply to a foreign ADI or Category C insurer.



                                                                                 CPS 511 - 11
                          Authorised Version F2023L01348 registered 29/09/2023
                                                                                 January 2024


      (c)   appropriate variable remuneration adjustment tools, that include but are
            not limited to overriding board discretion at each decision point, in-period
            adjustments, malus and, where appropriate, clawback, which are
            supported by a downward-adjustments process:

            (i)    with clearly identified triggers to make a downward-adjustment;

            (ii)   that determines the appropriate adjustment tools to use; and

            (iii) that determines the amount of downward-adjustment, proportionate
                  to the severity of risk and conduct outcomes, to nil if appropriate.

34.   The determination of each component of a person’s variable remuneration must:

      (a)   give material weight to non-financial measures12 where the remuneration
            is performance related; and

      (b)   be adjusted downwards, potentially to nil, for adverse risk and conduct
            outcomes, based on clearly defined risk criteria, as specified in
            paragraph 37 below.

35.   An APRA-regulated entity must subject a person’s variable remuneration
      arrangement to malus.

36.   An APRA-regulated entity must also subject the variable remuneration
      arrangement of a senior manager, executive director or a highly-paid material
      risk-taker to clawback. Clawback arrangements must include the following
      features:

      (a)   a period of at least two years from the date of payment or vesting of
            variable remuneration within which clawback may apply; and

      (b)   the application of clawback whether or not the employment or
            engagement of the person has ceased.

37.   An APRA-regulated entity must set specific criteria for the application of
      variable remuneration adjustment tools, including at least the following:

      (a)   misconduct leading to significant adverse outcomes;

      (b)   a significant failure of financial or non-financial risk management;

      (c)   a significant failure or breach of accountability, fitness and propriety, or
            compliance obligations;

      (d)   a significant error or a significant misstatement of criteria on which the
            variable remuneration determination was based; and


12
      No component of variable remuneration may be entirely dependent on share price performance
      or profitability.



                                                                                 CPS 511 - 12
                          Authorised Version F2023L01348 registered 29/09/2023
                                                                                   January 2024


      (e)   significant adverse          outcomes         for     customers,    beneficiaries   or
            counterparties.

38.   An APRA-regulated entity must take reasonable steps to appropriately adjust
      variable remuneration downwards when, as a minimum, any of the criteria
      specified in paragraph 37 are satisfied. The total downward-adjustment to
      variable remuneration must be proportionate to the severity of the risk and
      conduct outcome.

39.   In circumstances involving a person under investigation for criteria specified in
      paragraph 37, variable remuneration must not vest until the investigation is
      closed.

40.   An APRA-regulated entity must take appropriate steps to assess and mitigate
      conflicts of interest in the design of its remuneration arrangements, including
      conflicts that may arise from service contracts.

Deferral

41.   An APRA-regulated entity must defer variable remuneration as follows:

      (a)   for a Chief Executive Officer (CEO), at least 60 per cent of the CEO’s
            total variable remuneration must be deferred over a minimum deferral
            period of six years, vesting no faster than on a pro-rata basis and only after
            four years;

      (b)   for a senior manager and executive director other than a CEO, at least 40
            per cent of that person’s total variable remuneration must be deferred over
            a minimum deferral period of five years, vesting no faster than on a pro-
            rata basis and only after four years; and

      (c)   for a highly-paid material risk-taker who is not a senior manager, at least
            40 per cent of that person’s total variable remuneration must be deferred
            over a minimum deferral period of four years, vesting no faster than on a
            pro-rata basis and only after two years.

42.   The deferral period must include the period over which performance is assessed.
      The deferral period must also include any required service, retention and
      holding periods.

43.   Paragraph 41 does not apply in respect of any person with deferred variable
      remuneration of less than AUD $50,000 in a financial year of the APRA-
      regulated entity.

Remuneration outcomes

44.   An APRA-regulated entity must:

      (a)   align variable remuneration outcomes with performance and risk
            outcomes; and




                                                                                    CPS 511 - 13
                         Authorised Version F2023L01348 registered 29/09/2023
                                                                                      January 2024


      (b)    reflect the appropriate application of variable remuneration adjustment
             tools in variable remuneration outcomes, as specified in paragraph 33(c)
             of this Prudential Standard.

45.   An APRA-regulated entity may only pay or vest variable remuneration to a
      person if payment or vesting:

      (a)    supports the entity’s compliance with paragraph 21 of this Prudential
             Standard;

      (b)    is justified on the basis of the effectiveness of risk management of the
             entity and the relevant business unit; and

      (c)    is justified on the basis of the performance of the person, the relevant
             business unit and the entity.

46.   An APRA-regulated entity’s variable remuneration outcomes must link to and
      be supported by the entity’s performance management system, code of conduct
      and consequence management processes.

47.   An APRA-regulated entity must not accelerate the vesting of unvested variable
      remuneration for a person in a specified role no longer employed or engaged by
      the entity, unless specific exceptions13 have been included in the remuneration
      policy. If that person is eligible for any unvested variable remuneration, it must
      be subject to the same vesting conditions as those for a person employed or
      engaged by the entity.

Specified roles

48.   An APRA-regulated entity must prudently manage the variable remuneration
      arrangements of all persons in specified roles.

49.   The Board Remuneration Committee, or relevant oversight function, must
      provide clear guidance to senior management on its expectations in determining
      the appropriate level and timing of risk adjustment to the variable remuneration
      outcomes for persons in specified roles.

50.   The Board Remuneration Committee must make recommendations to the Board
      annually on the remuneration arrangements and variable remuneration outcomes
      for persons in specified roles as follows:

      (a)    individually for senior managers and executive directors;14 and

      (b)    on a cohort basis for highly-paid material risk-takers, other material risk-
             takers and risk and financial control personnel.


13
      For the purposes of paragraph 47 of this Prudential Standard, a reference to ‘specific exceptions’
      is limited to death, serious incapacity, serious disability and serious illness.
14
      For the avoidance of doubt, paragraph 50(a) of this Prudential Standard applies to a senior
      manager who is a senior officer outside Australia of a foreign ADI or of a Category C insurer.



                                                                                       CPS 511 - 14
                            Authorised Version F2023L01348 registered 29/09/2023
                                                                                   January 2024


51.   When forming its recommendations under paragraph 50 of this Prudential
      Standard, the Board Remuneration Committee must:

      (a)   obtain sufficient information to enable remuneration outcomes to be
            commensurate with performance and risk outcomes; and

      (b)   determine whether the variable remuneration arrangement, individually
            and on a cohort basis:

            (i)    is appropriate to meet its intended purpose and expected
                   remuneration outcomes; and

            (ii)   supports the entity’s compliance with paragraph 21 of this
                   Prudential Standard.

52.   The Board, or relevant oversight function, must approve the variable
      remuneration outcomes for persons in specified roles as follows:

      (a)   individually for senior managers and executive directors;15 and

      (b)   on a cohort basis for highly-paid material risk-takers, other material risk-
            takers and risk and financial control personnel.

53.   The variable remuneration arrangements for risk and financial control personnel
      must:

      (a)   reflect the independence and authority of those personnel in carrying out
            their functions;

      (b)   reflect the purpose of their functions; and

      (c)   not be unduly influenced by the performance of the business activities
            they control.

Review of the remuneration framework

54.   An APRA-regulated entity must review compliance of the remuneration
      framework against the requirements of this Prudential Standard at least
      annually.

55.   In addition to the annual review of compliance, the effectiveness of the
      remuneration framework must be subject to a comprehensive review by
      operationally independent, appropriately experienced and competent persons at
      least every three years.

56.   An APRA-regulated entity must document and report the results of the reviews
      required under paragraphs 54 and 55 of this Prudential Standard to the Board
      Remuneration Committee, or relevant oversight function, in a timely manner.

15
      Paragraph 52(a) of this Prudential Standard does not apply to a senior manager who is a senior
      officer outside Australia of a foreign ADI or of a Category C insurer.



                                                                                    CPS 511 - 15
                           Authorised Version F2023L01348 registered 29/09/2023
                                                                                   January 2024


      The Board Remuneration Committee, or relevant oversight function, must take
      appropriate and timely action to ensure the findings of these reviews are
      adequately considered and addressed.

57.   An APRA-regulated entity’s effectiveness review required under paragraph 55
      of this Prudential Standard must assess:

      (a)   compliance of the remuneration framework with paragraph 21 of this
            Prudential Standard;

      (b)   whether the remuneration framework and its elements are operating as
            intended;

      (c)   whether the design of the remuneration framework is appropriate and fit
            for purpose; and

      (d)   the alignment of remuneration outcomes with the performance and risk
            outcomes achieved.

58.   Where an APRA-regulated entity identifies a material change to the size,
      business mix and complexity of the operations outside the review required in
      paragraph 55, it must consider and address the need to amend or review the
      remuneration framework to take account of these developments at that time.

Other requirements

59.   In relation to the requirements for a Board Remuneration Committee and
      remuneration policy, where an APRA-regulated entity is part of a group, or
      corporate group in the case of a private health insurer, the Board of the APRA-
      regulated entity may:

      (a)   use a group Board Remuneration Committee as the Board Remuneration
            Committee for the APRA-regulated entity, provided that:

            (i)    the requirements set out in this Prudential Standard are met;

            (ii)   all members of the group Board Remuneration Committee are non-
                   executive directors of the Head of the group in the context of an
                   ADI, general insurer or life company;16 and

            (iii) the Board of the entity has free and unfettered access to the group
                  Board Remuneration Committee; and

      (b)   adopt and apply a group remuneration policy that is also used by a related
            body corporate or a connected entity provided that the group remuneration
            policy:

            (i)    meets the requirements of this Prudential Standard;

16
      In the case of a private health insurer, all members of the group Board Remuneration Committee
      must also be non-executive directors of the Head of the corporate group.



                                                                                    CPS 511 - 16
                           Authorised Version F2023L01348 registered 29/09/2023
                                                                                January 2024


            (ii)   has been approved by the Board or relevant oversight function; and

            (iii) gives appropriate regard to the entity’s business activities, its
                  specific requirements and its remuneration framework.

60.   An APRA-regulated entity may apply to APRA for approval of alternative
      Board Remuneration Committee arrangements that meet the objectives of this
      Prudential Standard. APRA may approve alternative arrangements for the entity
      if satisfied that those arrangements will, in APRA’s opinion, achieve the
      objectives of this Prudential Standard.

61.   Except in circumstances permitted by law, an APRA-regulated entity must not
      pay any remuneration (whether directly or indirectly) to, or for the benefit of, a
      person through vehicles or methods that undermine the effect or intent of the
      requirements of this Prudential Standard. An APRA-regulated entity must at
      minimum prevent the following:

      (a)   the entity indemnifying or insuring (whether directly or through
            arrangements with another person) the relevant person against the
            consequences of:

            (i)    breaching an obligation under this Prudential Standard; or

            (ii)   applying in-period adjustment, malus or clawback under this
                   Prudential Standard; and

      (b)   hedging by any person in a specified role who receives equity or equity-
            linked deferred variable remuneration, of their economic exposure to the
            resultant equity price risk before the equity-linked remuneration is fully
            vested and able to be sold for cash by the recipient. The entity must have a
            prohibition for such hedging, whether in its remuneration policy,
            contractual or other documentation, and, define and document the process
            and actions to be taken where any person in a specified role is in breach of
            the prohibition.

62.   Paragraph 61 does not apply in respect of a liability for legal costs.

Disclosures

63.   An APRA-regulated entity must make clear, comprehensive, meaningful,
      consistent and comparable public disclosure of information on its remuneration
      framework and practices, as set out in this Prudential Standard.

64.   An APRA-regulated entity must publish the disclosures required under this
      Prudential Standard in a standalone document on its website or, provided the
      information is clearly identified as disclosures made for the purpose of
      complying with the requirements of this Prudential Standard, as part of other
      disclosures made by the entity that are available on its website. Tables 2, 3 and
      4, must be disclosed in a machine-readable format to facilitate the use of the
      data, such as in the form of a comma-separated values (CSV) file.



                                                                                CPS 511 - 17
                         Authorised Version F2023L01348 registered 29/09/2023
                                                                               January 2024


65.   An APRA-regulated entity must make disclosures on a financial year basis for
      each full financial year of the APRA-regulated entity. For the purposes of
      disclosures, relevant employees must be counted on a full-time equivalent basis.

66.   An APRA-regulated entity must make the disclosures under this Prudential
      Standard as soon as possible after it lodges its annual financial statements with
      the Australian Securities and Investments Commissions (ASIC), and not more
      than six months after the end of the financial year to which the disclosures
      relate. If an entity is not required to lodge financial statements with ASIC, it
      must make the required disclosures not more than six months after the end of
      the financial year to which the disclosures relate.

67.   For the purposes of disclosing Tables 2, 3 and 4:

      (a)   where a person in a specified role is a material risk-taker and a senior
            manager or executive director, they must be disclosed as part of the senior
            manager cohort;

      (b)   where a particular cohort of specified roles, with the exception of the
            CEO, comprises less than five individuals, an APRA-regulated entity is
            not required to disclose information for that particular cohort.

Remuneration framework

68.   An APRA-regulated entity must disclose information on its remuneration
      framework as set out in Table 1.

Table 1     Remuneration framework
      Governance of the remuneration framework
1     Name, composition and mandate of the main bodies overseeing remuneration.
2     Number of meetings held by the main bodies overseeing remuneration during
      the financial year.
3     An overview of reviews of the remuneration framework performed during the
      financial year, including any consequential changes, the reasons for those
      changes and the intended impact on remuneration outcomes.
4     A description of how the Board:
        (i) oversees remuneration policies;
       (ii) oversees the input provided by:
             - the Board Risk Committee or other Board committees; and
             - the risk function, including the Chief Risk Officer; and
      (iii) exercises its discretion in determining remuneration outcomes,
             including remuneration outcomes for variable remuneration awarded in
             prior financial years.
5     A description of external consultants whose advice has been sought on
      remuneration, the body by which they were commissioned and in what areas of
      the remuneration framework.




                                                                               CPS 511 - 18
                        Authorised Version F2023L01348 registered 29/09/2023
                                                                                    January 2024


     Remuneration Framework
6    An overview of the key features and objectives of the remuneration
     framework, including how it:
       (i) aligns to the APRA-regulated entity’s business plan, strategic objectives
           and risk management framework;
      (ii) promotes effective management of both financial and non-financial
           risks, sustainable performance and long-term soundness;
     (iii) supports the prevention and mitigation of conduct risk; and
     (iv) for an RSE licensee, promotes the RSE licensee performing its duties
           and exercising powers in the best financial interests of beneficiaries.
7    A description of the scope of the APRA-regulated entity’s remuneration policy
     (such as by regions or business lines), including the extent to which it is
     applied to foreign subsidiaries and branches (if applicable).
8    A description of the types of positions included in specified roles as defined in
     paragraph 20(v)20(u) of this Prudential Standard.
9    A description of how the APRA-regulated entity aligns remuneration outcomes
     with performance. This must include:
       (i) an overview of the main financial and non-financial performance
           measures for the entity, key business lines, the CEO and other specified
           roles on a cohort basis;
      (ii) a description of how material weight is applied to non-financial
           measures in the determination of performance related variable
           remuneration, including the proportion (level or range) of variable
           remuneration that would be impacted by non-financial measures, where
           this is possible to define; and
     (iii) a discussion of how a person’s remuneration is linked to entity-wide and
           individual performance.
10   Where no variable remuneration is offered (excluding one-off payments), a
     description of the method used to ensure risk management outcomes are
     assessed and consequence management applied in the event of a material
     breach or misconduct.
11   A description of variable remuneration of risk and financial control personnel
     for the financial year covering: 17
       (i) remuneration arrangements, including how variable remuneration
            arrangements reflect their independence, authority and the purpose of
            their functions, and are not unduly influenced by the performance of the
            business activities they control;
      (ii) the remuneration outcomes, including variable remuneration outcomes
            as a proportion (level or range) of fixed remuneration and the nature and
            proportion of any adjustments made to reflect risk performance; and

17
     For the purposes of this paragraph, an APRA-regulated entity is required only to disclose
     information relating to those risk and financial control personnel that report directly to senior
     managers, rather than information on the entire cohort of risk and financial control personnel.



                                                                                     CPS 511 - 19
                           Authorised Version F2023L01348 registered 29/09/2023
                                                                                   January 2024


       (iii)   any special payments made.18
       Design of variable remuneration plans
12      For the variable remuneration plans applicable to specified roles, a description
        of the plan design, including:19
          (i) forms of remuneration offered;
         (ii) the persons eligible to participate in the plan, as a percentage of their
               respective cohort of specified role;
        (iii) how it is aligned with the business strategy and effective risk
               management;
        (iv) how cohort and individual outcomes are determined, including how
               material weight is given to non-financial measures;
         (v) if the mix of variable remuneration differs across persons within a
               specified role cohort, a description of the factors that determine the mix
               and their relative importance;
        (vi) how the variable remuneration pool (if any) is determined, including
               performance and risk measures used;
       (vii) deferral periods and vesting schedules; and
      (viii) any adjustment measures that may differ from Table 1, row 13.
       Deferrals and adjustments
13     A description of the ways in which the APRA-regulated entity defers and
       adjusts variable remuneration to take account of longer-term performance,
       including risk performance. This must include:
         (i) an overview of the processes and tools for adjusting variable
              remuneration, including criteria and triggers for each tool; and
        (ii) an overview of the policy for deferral and vesting of variable
              remuneration.


Remuneration outcomes

69.    An APRA-regulated entity must disclose remuneration outcomes for the
       financial year as set out in Table 2. Disclosure for the purposes of Table 2 must
       be on the basis of:

       (a)     current financial year awards that are not subject to conditions, and
               includes payments for the current financial year made following the end of
               the financial year; and

       (b)     prior financial year awards that satisfied all conditions during the financial
               year.



18
       Special payments are defined in paragraph 71 of this Prudential Standard.
19
       Where there may be minor variations in variable remuneration plans across specified roles, an
       APRA-regulated entity may disclose the plan once and note the minor variations.



                                                                                    CPS 511 - 20
                            Authorised Version F2023L01348 registered 29/09/2023
                                                                                     January 2024


Table 2     Remuneration outcomes for the financial year
                                                                            Highly
                                                         Other               paid        Other
                                                         senior            material    material
     A$m                                 CEO            managers          risk-takers risk-takers
Fixed remuneration
1    Number of employees                    -
     paid fixed remuneration
2    Total fixed
     remuneration
3     of which: cash-based
4     of which: share-based
      awards20
5     of which: other
6    Average percentage
     increase in total fixed
     remuneration (row 2) on
     previous financial year
Variable remuneration
7    Number of employees                    -
     eligible for variable
     remuneration
8    Number of employees that
     received variable
     remuneration
9    Total variable
     remuneration
10    of which: cash-based
11    of which: share-based
      awards
12    of which: other
13 Total variable
   remuneration (row 9)
   that has been deferred
14    of which: cash-based
15    of which: share-based
      awards


20
      Share-based awards that are conditional on objectives, which include performance criteria,
      service requirements or the passage of time must be disclosed as variable remuneration.



                                                                                      CPS 511 - 21
                          Authorised Version F2023L01348 registered 29/09/2023
                                                                                       January 2024


                                                                              Highly
                                                           Other               paid        Other
                                                           senior            material    material
      A$m                                  CEO            managers          risk-takers risk-takers
16     of which: other
17 Average percentage
   increase in total variable
   remuneration (row 9) on
   previous financial year
18 Total remuneration
   (sum of rows 2 + 9)


Special payments

70.    An APRA-regulated entity must disclose any special payments made in the
       financial year as set out in Table 3.21

71.    A special payment is a one-off :

       (a)    guaranteed bonus;

       (b)    sign-on award to a newly appointed employee upon recruitment; or

       (c)    severance award made to an employee ceasing employment, excluding
              any statutory entitlements.

Table 3       Special payments
                                                                          Highly
                                                       Other               paid        Other
                                                       senior            material    material
      A$m                              CEO            managers          risk-takers risk-takers
1 Number of employees                     -
  paid a guaranteed bonus
2 Total guaranteed
  bonuses
3 Number of employees                     -
  paid a sign-on award
4 Total sign-on awards
5 Number of employees                     -
  paid a severance
  payment


21
       Exclude specific exceptions under paragraph 47 of this Prudential standard.



                                                                                        CPS 511 - 22
                            Authorised Version F2023L01348 registered 29/09/2023
                                                                                  January 2024


                                                                       Highly
                                                    Other               paid        Other
                                                    senior            material    material
      A$m                           CEO            managers          risk-takers risk-takers
6 Total severance
  payments


Deferred and adjusted variable remuneration

72.    An APRA-regulated entity must disclose deferred and adjusted variable
       remuneration in Table 4. Disclosures for the purposes of Table 4 must include:

       (a)   for column A: total deferred variable remuneration net of downward-
             adjustments as at the end of the financial year. This must reflect current
             financial year awards and prior financial years’ awards that have not yet
             satisfied all conditions; and

       (b)   for column B: total paid and vested variable remuneration outcomes (i.e.
             not deferred) net of downward adjustments during the financial year. This
             must reflect current financial year payments and awards that are no longer
             subject to conditions (this includes payments and awards for the current
             financial year made following the end of the financial year); and prior
             financial years’ awards that satisfied all conditions during the financial
             year. This excludes deferred amounts; and

       (c)   for column C: total downward adjustments applied to variable
             remuneration that have been included under columns A and B during the
             financial year.

73.    For each of the cohort of specified roles in Table 4, an APRA-regulated entity
       must provide a description of the main triggers leading to downward-
       adjustments to variable remuneration as a result of consequence management.

Table 4      Deferred and adjusted variable remuneration
                                                                                       C
                                                                                 Total amount
                                          A               B                      of downward
                                   Total amount of Total amount                 adjustments to
                                     outstanding     of variable                    variable
                                      deferred     remuneration                  remuneration
                                       variable     not deferred                  reported in
                                    remuneration         post                   columns A and
      A$m                         post adjustments adjustments                         B
CEO
1     Total CEO
2      of which: cash


                                                                                   CPS 511 - 23
                         Authorised Version F2023L01348 registered 29/09/2023
                                                                                   January 2024


                                                                                        C
                                                                                  Total amount
                                           A               B                      of downward
                                    Total amount of Total amount                 adjustments to
                                      outstanding     of variable                    variable
                                       deferred     remuneration                  remuneration
                                        variable     not deferred                  reported in
                                     remuneration         post                   columns A and
     A$m                           post adjustments adjustments                         B
3     of which: share-based
      awards
4     of which: other
Other senior managers
5    Total other senior
     managers
6     of which: cash
7     of which: share-based
      awards
8     of which: other
Highly paid material-risk takers
9    Total highly paid
     material risk-takers
10    of which: cash
11    of which: share-based
      awards
12    of which: other
Other material risk-takers
13 Total other material
   risk-takers
14    of which: cash
15    of which: share-based
      awards
16    of which: other
17    Total
      (sum of rows 1 + 5 + 9
      + 13)




                                                                                    CPS 511 - 24
                          Authorised Version F2023L01348 registered 29/09/2023
                                                                                January 2024


B. Requirements for Non-SFIs

Remuneration framework

74.   An APRA-regulated entity must maintain a remuneration framework that:

      (a)   aligns with the entity’s business plan, strategic objectives and risk
            management framework;22

      (b)   promotes effective management of both financial and non-financial risks,
            sustainable performance and the entity’s long-term soundness;

      (c)   for an RSE licensee, promotes performing its duties and exercising its
            powers in the best financial interests of beneficiaries; and

      (d)   supports the prevention and mitigation of conduct risk.

75.   The remuneration framework must include a documented remuneration policy
      which at minimum sets out:

      (a)   how the remuneration framework addresses paragraph 74 of this
            Prudential Standard;

      (b)   at a high level, the structure and terms of remuneration arrangements that
            apply to a person who is:

            (i)    employed directly by the APRA-regulated entity;

            (ii)   retained directly by the APRA-regulated entity under contract; and

            (iii) employed by, or is a contractor of a body corporate (including a
                  service company) that is a related body corporate or connected
                  entity, of the APRA-regulated entity;

      (c)   the approach to identify and mitigate material conflicts to the objectives of
            the remuneration framework, as specified in paragraph 74 of this
            Prudential Standard, that may result from third-party service provider
            compensation arrangements; and

      (d)   the systems and processes that support the implementation of the entity’s
            remuneration arrangements, including those that cover the assessment and
            management of performance, conduct and consequences.

Role of the Board

76.   The Board, or relevant oversight function, of an APRA-regulated entity is
      ultimately responsible for the entity’s remuneration framework and its effective
      application.

22
      As required under Prudential Standard CPS 220 Risk Management and for an RSE licensee
      Prudential Standard SPS 220 Risk Management.



                                                                                CPS 511 - 25
                         Authorised Version F2023L01348 registered 29/09/2023
                                                                                   January 2024


77.   The Board, or relevant oversight function, must approve the remuneration
      policy required under paragraph 75 of this Prudential Standard.

Remuneration design

78.   An APRA-regulated entity must design all variable remuneration arrangements
      to align with paragraph 74 of this Prudential Standard and must incorporate in
      its variable remuneration arrangements:

      (a)   financial and non-financial risks that could materially impact the entity’s
            risk profile, sustainable performance, long-term soundness, and in
            addition for an RSE licensee, those risks that could materially impact on
            performing its duties and exercising its powers in the best financial
            interests of beneficiaries;

      (b)   payout and vesting schedules that are commensurate with the possible
            range of risk and performance outcomes and that are sensitive to the time
            horizon of risk; and

      (c)   appropriate variable remuneration adjustment tools, that include but are
            not limited to overriding board discretion at each decision point, in-period
            adjustments, malus and, where appropriate, clawback, which are
            supported by a downward-adjustments process:

            (i)    with clearly identified triggers to make a downward-adjustment;

            (ii)   that determines the appropriate adjustment tools to use; and

            (iii) that determines the amount of downward-adjustment, proportionate
                  to the severity of risk and conduct outcomes, to nil if appropriate.

79.   An APRA-regulated entity must subject a person’s variable remuneration
      arrangement to malus.

80.   An APRA-regulated entity must set specific criteria for the application of
      variable remuneration adjustment tools, including at least the following:

      (a)   misconduct leading to significant adverse outcomes;

      (b)   a significant failure of financial or non-financial risk management;

      (c)   a significant failure or breach of accountability, fitness and propriety, or
            compliance obligations;

      (d)   a significant error or a significant misstatement of criteria on which the
            variable remuneration determination was based; and

      (e)   significant adverse          outcomes         for     customers,    beneficiaries   or
            counterparties.

81.   An APRA-regulated entity must take reasonable steps to appropriately adjust
      variable remuneration downwards when, as a minimum, any of the criteria


                                                                                    CPS 511 - 26
                         Authorised Version F2023L01348 registered 29/09/2023
                                                                                      January 2024


      specified in paragraph 80 are satisfied. The total downward-adjustment to
      variable remuneration must be proportionate to the severity of the risk and
      conduct outcome.

82.   In circumstances involving a person under investigation for criteria specified in
      paragraph 80, variable remuneration must not vest until the investigation is
      closed.

83.   An APRA-regulated entity must take appropriate steps to assess and mitigate
      conflicts of interest in the design of its remuneration arrangements, including
      conflicts that may arise from service contracts.

84.   Despite paragraph 4, a foreign ADI, Category C insurer or EFLIC with total
      assets in excess of the threshold set out in the definition of SFI under APS 001,
      GPS 001 or LPS 001 respectively must defer variable remuneration of highly-
      paid material risk-takers in accordance with paragraphs 41(c), 42 and 43 of this
      Prudential Standard.

Remuneration outcomes

85.   An APRA-regulated entity must:

      (a)    align variable remuneration outcomes with performance and risk
             outcomes; and

      (b)    reflect the appropriate application of variable remuneration adjustment
             tools in variable remuneration outcomes, as specified in paragraph 78(c)
             of this Prudential Standard.

86.   An APRA-regulated entity must not accelerate the vesting of unvested variable
      remuneration for a person in a specified role no longer employed or engaged by
      the entity, unless specific exceptions23 have been included in the remuneration
      policy. If that person is eligible for any unvested variable remuneration, it must
      be subject to the same vesting conditions as those for a person employed or
      engaged by the entity.

Specified roles

87.   The Board, or relevant oversight function, must approve the variable
      remuneration outcomes for persons in specified roles as follows:

      (a)    individually for senior managers and executive directors;24 and

      (b)    on a cohort basis for highly-paid material risk-takers, other material risk-
             takers and risk and financial control personnel.


23
      For the purposes of paragraph 86 of this Prudential Standard, a reference to ‘specific exceptions’
      is limited to death, serious incapacity, serious disability and serious illness.
24
      Paragraph 87(a) of this Prudential Standard does not apply to a senior manager who is a senior
      officer outside Australia of a foreign ADI or Category C insurer.



                                                                                       CPS 511 - 27
                            Authorised Version F2023L01348 registered 29/09/2023
                                                                                January 2024


Other requirements

88.   In relation to the requirements for a remuneration policy, where an APRA-
      regulated entity is part of a group, or corporate group in the case of a private
      health insurer, the Board of the APRA-regulated entity may adopt and apply a
      group remuneration policy that is also used by a related body corporate or a
      connected entity provided that the group remuneration policy:

      (a)   meets the requirements of this Prudential Standard;

      (b)   has been approved by the Board or relevant oversight function; and

      (c)   gives appropriate regard to the entity’s business activities, its specific
            requirements and its remuneration framework.

89.   Except in circumstances permitted by law, an APRA-regulated entity must not
      pay any remuneration (whether directly or indirectly) to, or for the benefit of, a
      person through vehicles or methods that undermine the effect or intent of the
      requirements of this Prudential Standard. An APRA-regulated entity must at
      minimum prevent the following:

      (a)   the entity indemnifying or insuring (whether directly or through
            arrangements with another person) the relevant person against the
            consequences of:

            (i)    breaching an obligation under this Prudential Standard; or

            (ii)   applying in-period adjustment, malus or clawback under this
                   Prudential Standard; and

      (b)   hedging by any person in a specified role who receives equity or equity-
            linked deferred variable remuneration, of their economic exposure to the
            resultant equity price risk before the equity-linked remuneration is fully
            vested and able to be sold for cash by the recipient. The entity must have a
            prohibition for such hedging, whether in its remuneration policy,
            contractual or other documentation, and, define and document the process
            and actions to be taken where any person in a specified role is in breach of
            the prohibition.

90.   Paragraph 89 does not apply in respect of a liability for legal costs.

Disclosures

91.   An APRA-regulated entity must make clear, comprehensive, meaningful,
      consistent and comparable public disclosure of information on its remuneration
      framework and practices, as set out in this Prudential Standard.

92.   An APRA-regulated entity must publish the disclosures required under this
      Prudential Standard in a standalone document on its website or, provided the
      information is clearly identified as disclosures made for the purpose of
      complying with the requirements of this Prudential Standard, as part of other
      disclosures made by the entity that are available on its website.

                                                                                CPS 511 - 28
                         Authorised Version F2023L01348 registered 29/09/2023
                                                                                   January 2024


93.   An APRA-regulated entity must make disclosures on a financial year basis for
      each full financial year of the APRA-regulated entity.

94.   An APRA-regulated entity must make the disclosures under this Prudential
      Standard as soon as possible after it lodges its annual financial statements with
      ASIC and not more than six months after the end of the financial year to which
      the disclosures relate. If an entity is not required to lodge financial statements
      with ASIC, it must make the required disclosures not more than six months after
      the end of the financial year to which the disclosures relate.

95.   APRA may determine that a non-SFI comply with the quantitative disclosure
      requirements set out in paragraphs 63 to 73 of this Prudential Standard.25

Qualitative disclosures

96.   An APRA-regulated entity must disclose information on the governance of the
      remuneration framework. This must include:

      (a)    information on the main bodies that oversee remuneration and the number
             of meetings held by those bodies during the financial year;

      (b)    information on how the Board exercises its discretion in determining
             remuneration outcomes; and

      (c)    a description of how the Board oversees remuneration policies and the
             input provided by the Board Risk Committee, other Board committees, or
             the risk function, including the Chief Risk Officer.

97.   An APRA-regulated entity must disclose information on the design and
      structure of its remuneration framework. This must include a description of how
      it:

      (a)    aligns to the entity’s business plan, strategic objectives and risk
             management framework;

      (b)    promotes the effective management of both financial and non-financial
             risks, sustainable performance and long-term soundness;

      (c)    supports the prevention and mitigation of conduct risk; and

      (d)    for an RSE licensee, promotes the RSE licensee performing its duties and
             exercising powers in the best financial interests of beneficiaries.

98.   An APRA-regulated entity must disclose information on its remuneration
      policy, including:

      (a)    how the entity aligns variable remuneration outcomes with performance,
             where relevant;


25
      Refer to paragraph 4 of this Prudential Standard.



                                                                                   CPS 511 - 29
                            Authorised Version F2023L01348 registered 29/09/2023
                                                                         January 2024


(b)   a description of the types of positions included in specified roles, as
      defined in paragraph 20(v) of this Prudential Standard;

(c)   how consequence management is applied in the event of a material breach
      or misconduct;

(d)   a description of the different forms of variable remuneration offered to
      employees in specified roles and the rationale for using these different
      forms (if offered);

(e)   where no variable remuneration is offered (excluding one-off payments), a
      description of the method used to ensure risk management outcomes are
      assessed and consequence management applied in the event of a material
      breach or misconduct; and

(f)   a description of the ways in which the APRA-regulated entity defers and
      adjusts variable remuneration to take account of longer-term performance,
      including risk performance.




                                                                         CPS 511 - 30
                  Authorised Version F2023L01348 registered 29/09/2023
