SOURCE: https://www.legislation.gov.au/F2022L00741/asmade/2022-06-03/text/original/pdf
FINAL URL: https://www.legislation.gov.au/F2022L00741/asmade/2022-06-03/text/original/pdf
FETCHED: 2026-10-10

Superannuation (prudential standard)
determination No. 1 of 2022
Prudential Standard SPS 250 Insurance in Superannuation

Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993


I, Renée Roberts, delegate of APRA:

(a) under subsection 34C(6) of the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993 (the Act)
    REVOKE Superannuation (prudential standard) determination No. 5 of 2012, including
    Prudential Standard SPS 250 Insurance in Superannuation made under that
    determination; and

(b) under subsection 34C(1) of the the Act DETERMINE Prudential Standard SPS 250
    Insurance in Superannuation in the form set out in the Schedule, which applies to all RSE
    licensees.


This instrument commences on 1 July 2022.


Dated: 27 May 2022



Renée Roberts
Executive Director
Policy & Advice



Interpretation
In this instrument:
APRA means the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority.
RSE licensee has the meaning given in section 10(1) of the Act.




                           Authorised Version F2022L00741 registered 03/06/2022
Schedule
Prudential Standard SPS 250 Insurance in Superannuation comprises the document
commencing on the following page.




                         Authorised Version F2022L00741 registered 03/06/2022
                                                                                    July 2022




Prudential Standard SPS 250

Insurance in Superannuation
Objectives and key requirements of this Prudential
Standard

The purpose of this Prudential Standard is to ensure that an RSE licensee, consistent with its
obligations to act in the best financial interests of beneficiaries, maintains insurance
arrangements for the benefit of the beneficiaries. An RSE licensee is required to implement a
sound insurance management framework for making insured benefits available to
beneficiaries, including prudently selecting and monitoring insurers.

The Board of an RSE licensee is ultimately responsible for having an insurance management
framework that reflects the risks associated with making available insured benefits, and
ensuring that the framework is appropriate to the size, business mix and complexity of the RSE
licensee’s business operations. The insurance management framework must include the
insurance strategies for each registrable superannuation entity required in the Superannuation
Industry (Supervision) Act 1993.

The key requirements of this Prudential Standard are that an RSE licensee must also:

    ensure that insurance arrangements adequately address the minimum requirements set
     out in this Prudential Standard;

    formulate and give effect to appropriate selection processes for, and due diligence of,
     insurers and monitor relationships with insurers on an ongoing basis; and

    obtain and provide to APRA an independent certification of an insurance arrangement,
     where the arrangement is with an insurer that is a connected entity of the RSE licensee
     or where otherwise required by APRA.




                                                                                   SPS 250 - 1

                            Authorised Version F2022L00741 registered 03/06/2022
                                                                                                        July 2022


Authority

1.       This Prudential Standard is made under section 34C of the Superannuation Industry
         (Supervision) Act 1993 (SIS Act).

Application and commencement

2.       This Prudential Standard applies to all registrable superannuation entity (RSE) licensees
         (RSE licensees).1

3.       Where an RSE licensee of a defined benefit fund is permitted to self-insure benefits,
         paragraphs 23 to 29 inclusive do not apply with respect to the self-insured benefits.2

4.       This Prudential Standard commences on 1 July 2022 (effective date).

Interpretation

5.       For the purposes of this Prudential Standard, ‘insured benefits’ means benefits that are
         made available to beneficiaries via3:

         (a)    insurance acquired by an RSE licensee from a life company registered, or taken to
                be registered, under section 21 of the Life Insurance Act 1995 or a general insurance
                company or Lloyd’s underwriter authorised, or taken to be authorised, under the
                Insurance Act 1973 (an insurer); or

         (b)    insurance offered under an RSE licensee’s self-insurance arrangements.

         For the purposes of this Prudential Standard, the activities described in paragraphs 5(a)
         and (b) are referred to as ‘making insured benefits available’ to beneficiaries.

6.       Where this Prudential Standard provides for APRA to exercise a power or discretion, the
         power or discretion is to be exercised in writing.

Adjustments and exclusions

7.       APRA may adjust or exclude a specific requirement in this Prudential Standard in
         relation to:

         (a)    a particular RSE licensee of an RSE;



1
    For the purposes of this Prudential Standard, ‘RSE licensee’ has the meaning given in section 10(1) of the SIS
      Act.
2
    Refer to Prudential Standard SPS 160 Defined Benefit Matters for additional requirements applying to RSE
      licensees that are permitted to self-insure insurance benefits and to regulation 4.07E(8) of the Superannuation
      Industry (Supervision) Regulations 1994 which exempts defined benefit funds, that self-insure on 1 July 2013,
      from the general prohibition on self-insurance (subject to certain conditions).
3
    For the purposes of this Prudential Standard, a reference to ‘beneficiaries’ is a reference to ‘beneficiaries of
     an RSE within the RSE licensee’s business operations’.




                                                                                                      SPS 250 - 2

                                    Authorised Version F2022L00741 registered 03/06/2022
                                                                                                          July 2022


         (b)     a particular connected entity of an RSE licensee of an RSE;

         (c)     specified RSE licensees of RSEs; or

         (d)     specified connected entities of RSE licensees of RSEs.

RSE licensees that are part of a group4

8.       Where an RSE licensee is part of a corporate group, and the RSE licensee utilises group
         policies or functions, the Board must approve the use of group policies and functions and
         must ensure that these policies and functions give appropriate regard to the RSE
         licensee’s business operations and its specific requirements.5

Insurance management framework

9.       An RSE licensee must have in place an insurance management framework to manage
         making insured benefits available to beneficiaries.

10.      An RSE licensee’s insurance management framework is the totality of systems,
         structures, policies, processes and people to manage making insured benefits available to
         beneficiaries.

11.      An RSE licensee’s insurance management framework must be appropriate to the size,
         business mix and complexity of the RSE licensee’s business operations and to the types
         of insured benefits made available.

12.      The Board is ultimately responsible for the insurance management framework.

13.      An RSE licensee’s insurance management framework must, at a minimum, include:

         (a)     the insurance strategy required under section 52(7) of the SIS Act (which must also
                 comply with the requirements of this Prudential Standard);

         (b)     policies and procedures of the RSE licensee relevant to making insured benefits
                 available to beneficiaries, that cover but are not limited to:

                 (i)    the process by which the cost to the RSE licensee of insurance premiums is
                        recovered from the RSE(s);
                 (ii)   the process for monitoring and reviewing the administration of insurance;



4
    For the purposes of this Prudential Standard, a reference to ‘a group’ is a reference to a group comprising the
      RSE licensee and all connected entities of the RSE licensee and ‘connected entity’ has the meaning given in
      section 10(1) of the SIS Act.
5
    For the purposes of this Prudential Standard, a reference to the ‘Board’ is a reference to the Board of directors
     or group of individual trustees of an RSE licensee and ‘group of individual trustees’ has the meaning given in
     section 10(1) of the SIS Act. For the purposes of this Prudential Standard, an ‘RSE licensee’s business
     operations’ includes all activities as an RSE licensee (including the activities of each RSE of which it is the
     licensee), and all other activities of the RSE licensee to the extent that they are relevant to, or may impact on,
     its activities as an RSE licensee.




                                                                                                        SPS 250 - 3

                                     Authorised Version F2022L00741 registered 03/06/2022
                                                                                                  July 2022


               (iii) underwriting; and
               (iv) claims assessment;

         (c)   clearly defined roles and responsibilities and lines of reporting for the oversight of
               the insurance management framework;

         (d)   a review process to ensure the insurance management framework remains
               appropriate and effective;

         (e)   a policy for managing declined applications for insurance, applications resulting in
               reduced cover or restrictions, terminations of cover and requests for reinstatement;
               and

         (f)   a process that enables beneficiaries to easily opt out of insurance cover, and that
               sets out how this will be communicated to beneficiaries.6

14.      An RSE licensee must have procedures to ensure that all persons in roles relevant to the
         insurance activities of the RSE licensee are made aware of, and have processes and
         controls for monitoring compliance with, the RSE licensee’s insurance management
         framework.

15.      An RSE licensee must maintain or have access to records of sufficient detail to comply
         with its obligations under the reporting framework and for a prospective insurer to
         properly assess the insured benefits that are made available.7 These records must include,
         for at least the previous five years, the claims experience, membership, sum insured and
         premiums paid in relation to beneficiaries.

16.      An RSE licensee’s risk management framework must reflect the risks associated with
         making insured benefits available to beneficiaries as a material risk area identified in
         Prudential Standard SPS 220 Risk Management.

Insurance strategy

17.      In addition to complying with section 52(7) of the SIS Act, an RSE licensee’s insurance
         strategy for an RSE must, at a minimum, document:

         (a)   how the RSE licensee has regard to each of the factors in section 52(7) of the SIS
               Act;

         (b)   the processes for monitoring, reviewing and renewing the insured benefits made
               available to beneficiaries;

         (c)   the RSE licensee’s approach to claims management, regardless of who is


6
    For the purposes of this Prudential Standard, where an RSE licensee is not required under RSE licensee law
     to provide for opt-out insurance cover, this requirement does not apply, and ‘RSE licensee law’ has the
     meaning given in section 10(1) of the SIS Act.
7
    ‘Reporting framework’ means the reporting standards made under the Financial Sector (Collection of Data)
      Act 2001.



                                                                                                SPS 250 - 4

                                  Authorised Version F2022L00741 registered 03/06/2022
                                                                                                         July 2022


                responsible for handling claims; and

         (d)    the RSE licensee’s approach, as outlined in its conflicts management framework,
                to conflicts that may arise through making available insured benefits to
                beneficiaries.8

Insurance arrangements

18.      For the purposes of this Prudential Standard, ‘insurance arrangement’ means:

         (a)    where an RSE licensee makes available insured benefits as described in paragraph
                5(a) – an insurance policy document9; or

         (b)    where an RSE licensee makes available insured benefits as described in paragraph
                5(b) – appropriate documentation of the terms and conditions of the insured
                benefits;

         and any agreement between the RSE licensee and the insurer or any other party, to the
         extent that the agreement concerns making available insured benefits.10

19.      At a minimum, the insurance arrangement must address:

         (a)    the level and type of insured benefits made available, including any exclusions;

         (b)    the term of the insured benefits;

         (c)    automatic acceptance limits (to the extent relevant);

         (d)    availability of opt in and/or opt out cover;

         (e)    requirements for the beneficiaries’ eligibility for, cessation of, and any
                reinstatement of entitlements to insured benefits where available;

         (f)    premium structure, including any variable components;

         (g)    procedures for notification and payment of claims;

         (h)    dispute resolution arrangements;

         (i)    agreed service standards;

         (j)    reporting requirements for monitoring agreed service standards;




8
      Refer to Prudential Standard SPS 521 Conflicts of Interest for details of conflicts management requirements.
9
      For the purposes of this Prudential Standard, a reference to ‘an insurance policy document’ is a reference to a
      contract of insurance issued by an insurer.
10
     An agreement that meets the definition of outsourcing in Prudential Standard SPS 231 Outsourcing must meet
      the requirements of that Prudential Standard.


                                                                                                      SPS 250 - 5

                                    Authorised Version F2022L00741 registered 03/06/2022
                                                                                                         July 2022


         (k)     the provision of complete claims information to the RSE licensee on an annual
                 basis which, at a minimum, includes the information required to be maintained by
                 the RSE licensee under paragraph 15;

         (l)     liability and indemnity arrangements;

         (m)     review and renewal provisions for the insurance arrangement; and

         (n)     termination provisions for the insurance arrangement which, where relevant,
                 include a right for the RSE licensee to terminate the insurance arrangement, or the
                 relevant part of the insurance arrangement, if the RSE licensee is not satisfied that
                 the arrangement is in the best financial interests of the beneficiaries.11

20.      An RSE licensee must be able to satisfy itself, and demonstrate to APRA, that the rules
         for attributing any status to a beneficiary, (including a class or cohort of beneficiaries) in
         connection with the provision of insurance, are fair and reasonable.

21.      An RSE licensee must notify APRA as soon as practicable of any issues that it considers
         might materially affect its ability to make insured benefits available to beneficiaries.

22.      Where an insurance arrangement is terminated, an RSE licensee must notify APRA as
         soon as practicable and provide a statement about the transition arrangements and future
         strategies for continuing to make insured benefits available to beneficiaries.

Selection and monitoring of insurers

23.      An RSE licensee must:

         (a)     develop and implement a selection process for choosing an insurer that includes, at
                 a minimum, consideration of the prospective insurer’s terms of cover and
                 exclusions, claims philosophy, the reasonableness of the premiums to be charged
                 and terms of any delegation to any other person of functions associated with
                 making available insured benefits;

         (b)     undertake a due diligence review of the selected insurer; and

         (c)     be able to demonstrate to APRA the appropriateness of the selection process and
                 due diligence review and how it is applied.

24.      An RSE licensee must be able to satisfy itself, and demonstrate to APRA, that the
         engagement of an insurer is conducted at arm’s length and is in the best financial interests
         of beneficiaries.

25.      Where an insurer that is a connected entity of an RSE licensee is party, or will be party,
         to an insurance arrangement with the RSE licensee under which the RSE licensee makes,
         or will make, insured benefits available to beneficiaries, the RSE licensee must obtain an


11
     Refer to section 52(2)(c) of the SIS Act. Note that only insurance arrangements entered into from the effective
      date of this Prudential Standard are required to include a right for the RSE licensee to terminate the insurance
      arrangement, or the relevant part of the insurance arrangement, if the RSE licensee is not satisfied that the
      arrangement is in the best financial interests of the beneficiaries.


                                                                                                       SPS 250 - 6

                                     Authorised Version F2022L00741 registered 03/06/2022
                                                                                        July 2022


      independent certification that states it is reasonable for the RSE licensee to form the view
      that the insurance arrangement is in the best financial interests of the beneficiaries.

26.   Subject to paragraph 33, an RSE licensee that is required to obtain an independent
      certification under paragraph 25 must obtain the certification:

      (a)   before the RSE licensee:

            (i)    enters into a new insurance arrangement; or
            (ii)   renews, or materially alters the terms of, an existing insurance arrangement;
                   and
      (b)   on at least a triennial basis.
27.   An RSE licensee must provide APRA with the independent certification required under
      paragraph 25 no later than 10 business days after the RSE licensee receives the
      certification.

28.   APRA may require an RSE licensee, by notice in writing, to seek an independent
      certification of an insurance arrangement under which the RSE licensee makes, or will
      make, insured benefits available to beneficiaries, that states it is reasonable for the RSE
      licensee to form the view that the insurance arrangement is in the best financial interests
      of the beneficiaries. An RSE licensee that receives such a notice from APRA is required
      to comply with the terms of the notice in writing.

29.   An RSE licensee must ensure it has sufficient and appropriate resources to manage and
      monitor its relationship with an insurer at all times. At a minimum, the monitoring must
      include:

      (a)   maintaining regular contact with the insurer at an appropriate frequency and level
            of seniority; and

      (b)   a process for regular monitoring of performance under the insurance arrangement,
            including reporting to senior management against service levels.

Review of insurance management framework

30.   An RSE licensee must ensure that the appropriateness, effectiveness and adequacy of its
      insurance management framework are subject to a comprehensive review by
      operationally independent, appropriately trained and competent persons at least every
      three years.

31.   The scope of the comprehensive review of an RSE licensee’s insurance management
      framework must have regard to the size, business mix and complexity of the RSE
      licensee's business operations, the extent of any change to those operations and any
      changes to the external environment in which the RSE licensee operates.

32.   At a minimum, the comprehensive review of the insurance management framework must
      consider:

      (a)   all the matters identified in paragraph 13;



                                                                                      SPS 250 - 7

                             Authorised Version F2022L00741 registered 03/06/2022
                                                                                       July 2022


      (b)   whether there are any conflicts of interest or duty that may affect the arm’s length
            nature of the insurance arrangement; and

      (c)   whether the best financial interests of the beneficiaries may not have been
            prioritised, after considering:

            (i)    the RSE licensee’s business practices in selecting and monitoring an insurer;
                   and
            (ii)   the terms and conditions of the insurance arrangement(s) for making insured
                   benefits available for the beneficiaries.

Transitional arrangements

33.   Where:

      (a)   an RSE licensee has entered into an insurance arrangement with a connected entity
            of the RSE licensee prior to the effective date; and

      (b)   the insurance arrangement ends on or after 1 July 2023,

      the RSE licensee must, before 1 July 2023, seek an independent certification that states
      it is reasonable for the RSE licensee to form the view that the insurance arrangement is
      in the best financial interests of the beneficiaries.

34.   An RSE licensee must provide APRA with an independent certification obtained for the
      purposes of paragraph 33 no later than 10 business days after the RSE licensee receives
      the certification.

35.   Where an RSE licensee is unable to obtain an independent certification, for the purposes
      of paragraph 33, that states it is reasonable for the RSE licensee to form the view that the
      insurance arrangement is in the best financial interests of the beneficiaries, the RSE
      licensee must notify APRA no later than 10 business days after becoming aware that it
      cannot obtain an independent certification containing that statement.




                                                                                     SPS 250 - 8

                             Authorised Version F2022L00741 registered 03/06/2022
