SOURCE: https://www.legislation.gov.au/F2019L00669/asmade/2019-05-07/text/original/pdf
FINAL URL: https://www.legislation.gov.au/F2019L00669/asmade/2019-05-07/text/original/pdf
FETCHED: 2026-10-08

Banking, Insurance, Life Insurance and
Health Insurance (prudential standard)
determination No.1 of 2019

Prudential Standard CPS 220 Risk Management

Banking Act 1959
Insurance Act 1973
Life Insurance Act 1995
Private Health Insurance (Prudential Supervision) Act 2015
I, Pat Brennan, delegate of APRA:

(a)    under subsection 11AF(3) of the Banking Act 1959 REVOKE Banking,
       Insurance, Life Insurance and Health Insurance (prudential standard)
       determination No. 1 of 2017, including Prudential Standard CPS 220 Risk
       Management made under that Determination;

(b)    under subsection 32(4) of the Insurance Act 1973 REVOKE Banking,
       Insurance Life Insurance and Health Insurance (prudential standard)
       determination No. 1 of 2017, including Prudential Standard CPS 220 Risk
       Management made under that Determination;

(c)    under subsection 230A(5) of the Life Insurance Act 1995 REVOKE Banking,
       Insurance Life Insurance and Health Insurance (prudential standard)
       determination No. 1 of 2017, including Prudential Standard CPS 220 Risk
       Management made under that Determination;

(d)    under subsection 92(5) of the Private Health Insurance (Prudential
       Supervision) Act 2015 REVOKE Banking, Insurance, Life Insurance and
       Health Insurance (prudential standard) determination No. 1 of 2017, including
       Prudential Standard CPS 220 Risk Management made under that
       Determination;




                       Authorised Version F2019L00669 registered 07/05/2019
(e)   under subsection 11AF(1) of the Banking Act 1959 DETERMINE Prudential
      Standard CPS 220 Risk Management in the form set out in the Schedule, to
      the extent that it applies to all ADIs and authorised banking NOHCs;

(f)   under subsection 32(1) of the Insurance Act 1973 DETERMINE Prudential
      Standard CPS 220 Risk Management in the form set out in the Schedule, to
      the extent that it applies to all general insurers, authorised insurance NOHCs,
      and subsidiaries of general insurers and authorised insurance NOHCs;

(g)   under subsection 230A(1) of the Life Insurance Act 1995 DETERMINE
      Prudential Standard CPS 220 Risk Management in the form set out in the
      Schedule, which applies to all life companies, friendly societies, registered life
      NOHCs, and subsidiaries of life companies and registered life NOHCs; and

(h)   under subsection 92(1) of the Private Health Insurance (Prudential
      Supervision) Act 2015 DETERMINE Prudential Standard CPS 220 Risk
      Management in the form set out in the Schedule, to the extent that it applies to
      all private health insurers.

This instrument commences on 1 July 2019

Dated: 3 May 2019


[Signed]


Pat Brennan

Executive General Manager
Policy and Advice Division




                       Authorised Version F2019L00669 registered 07/05/2019
Interpretation
In this Determination:
ADI has the meaning given in section 5 of the Banking Act 1959.
APRA means the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority.
authorised banking NOHC has the meaning given to the expression authorised
NOHC in section 5 of the Banking Act 1959.
authorised insurance NOHC has the meaning given to the expression authorised
NOHC in subsection 3(1) of the Insurance Act 1973.
friendly society has the meaning given in section 16C of the Life Insurance Act 1995.
general insurer has the meaning given in section 11 of the Insurance Act 1973.
life company has the meaning given in the Schedule to the Life Insurance Act 1995.
private health insurer has the meaning given in section 4(1) of Private Health
Insurance (Prudential Supervision) Act 2015.
registered life NOHC has the meaning given to the expression registered NOHC in
the Schedule to the Life Insurance Act 1995.


Schedule
Prudential Standard CPS 220 Risk Management comprises the 14 pages commencing
on the following page.




                         Authorised Version F2019L00669 registered 07/05/2019
                                                                                  July 2019




Prudential Standard CPS 220 Risk
Management
Objectives and key requirements of this Prudential
Standard

This Prudential Standard requires an APRA-regulated institution and a Head of a
group to have systems for identifying, measuring, evaluating, monitoring, reporting,
and controlling or mitigating material risks that may affect its ability, or the ability of
the group it heads, to meet its obligations to depositors and/or policyholders. These
systems, together with the structures, policies, processes and people supporting them,
comprise an institution’s or group’s risk management framework.

The Board of an APRA-regulated institution and the Board of a Head of a group,
respectively, are ultimately responsible for having a risk management framework that
is appropriate to the size, business mix and complexity of the institution or group it
heads. The risk management framework must also be consistent with the institution’s
or group’s strategic objectives and business plan.

The key requirements of this Prudential Standard are that an APRA-regulated
institution and a Head of a group must:

     maintain a risk management framework that is appropriate to the size, business
      mix and complexity of the institution or group, as relevant;

     maintain a Board-approved risk appetite statement;

     maintain a Board-approved risk management strategy that describes the key
      elements of the risk management framework that give effect to the approach to
      managing risk;

     maintain a Board-approved business plan that sets out the approach for the
      implementation of the strategic objectives of the institution or group;

     maintain adequate resources to ensure compliance with this Prudential Standard;
      and

     notify APRA when it becomes aware of a significant breach of, or material
      deviation from, the risk management framework, or that the risk management
      framework does not adequately address a material risk.



                                                                                CPS 220 - 1
                         Authorised Version F2019L00669 registered 07/05/2019
                                                                                        July 2019


Authority

1.   This Prudential Standard is made under:

     (a)    section 11AF of the Banking Act 1959 (Banking Act);

     (b)    section 32 of the Insurance Act 1973 (Insurance Act);

     (c)    section 230A of the Life Insurance Act 1995 (Life Insurance Act); and

     (d)    section 92 of the Private Health Insurance (Prudential Supervision) Act
            2015 (PHIPS Act).

Application

2.   This Prudential Standard applies to all ‘APRA-regulated institutions’1 defined
     as:

     (a)    authorised deposit-taking institutions (ADIs), including foreign ADIs,
            and non-operating holding companies authorised under the Banking Act
            (authorised banking NOHCs);

     (b)    general insurers, including Category C insurers, non-operating holding
            companies authorised under the Insurance Act (authorised insurance
            NOHCs) and parent entities of Level 2 insurance groups;

     (c)    life companies, including friendly societies and eligible foreign life
            insurance companies (EFLICs), and non-operating holding companies
            registered under the Life Insurance Act (registered life NOHCs); and

     (d)    private health insurers registered under the PHIPS Act.

3.   APRA-regulated institutions must comply with this Prudential Standard in its
     entirety, unless otherwise expressly indicated. The obligations imposed by this
     Prudential Standard on, or in relation to, a foreign ADI, a Category C insurer or
     an EFLIC apply only in relation to the Australian branch operations of that
     institution.

4.   Where an APRA-regulated institution is the ‘Head of a group’,2 it must comply
     with a requirement of this Prudential Standard:

     (a)    in its capacity as an APRA-regulated institution;

     (b)    by ensuring that the requirement is applied appropriately throughout the
            group, including in relation to institutions that are not APRA-regulated;
            and

1
     Note, for the purposes of this Prudential Standard, an RSE licensee is not treated as an ‘APRA-
     regulated institution’. Refer to Prudential Standard SPS 220 Risk Management (SPS 220) for
     requirements relating to the risk management of an RSE licensee.
2
     Where a Level 2 group operates within a Level 3 group, a requirement expressed as applying to
     a Head of a group is to be read as applying to the Level 3 Head.



                                                                                     CPS 220 - 2
                          Authorised Version F2019L00669 registered 07/05/2019
                                                                                July 2019


     (c)   on a group basis.

     In applying the requirements of this Prudential Standard on a group basis,
     references in paragraphs 9, 19 to 56, and Attachment A to an ‘APRA-regulated
     institution’ should be read as ‘Head of a group’ and references to ‘institution’
     should be read as ‘group’.

5.   This Prudential Standard commences on 1 July 2019.

Interpretation

6.   In this Prudential Standard:

     (a)   terms that are defined in Prudential Standard 3PS 001 Definitions,
           Prudential Standard APS 001 Definitions (APS 001), Prudential Standard
           GPS 001 Definitions (GPS 001), Prudential Standard LPS 001 Definitions
           or Prudential Standard HPS 001 Definitions appear in bold the first time
           they are used; and

     (b)   unless the contrary intention appears, a reference to an Act, Regulations or
           Prudential Standard is a reference to the Act, Regulations or Prudential
           Standard as in force from time to time.

7.   Where this Prudential Standard provides for APRA to exercise a power or
     discretion, this power or discretion is to be exercised in writing.

8.   For the purposes of this Prudential Standard:

     ‘group’ means a Level 2 group or a Level 3 group, as relevant;

     ‘Head of a group’ means a Level 2 Head or Level 3 Head, as relevant;

     ‘Level 2 group’ means the entities that comprise:

     (a)   Level 2 as defined in APS 001; or

     (b)   a Level 2 insurance group as defined in GPS 001;

     ‘Level 2 Head’ means:

     (a)   where an ADI that is a member of a Level 2 group is not a subsidiary of
           an authorised banking NOHC or another ADI, that ADI;

     (b)   where an ADI that is a member of a Level 2 group is a subsidiary of an
           authorised banking NOHC, that authorised banking NOHC; or

     (c)   the parent entity of a Level 2 insurance group as defined in GPS 001.




                                                                              CPS 220 - 3
                       Authorised Version F2019L00669 registered 07/05/2019
                                                                                     July 2019


The role of the Board

9.    The Board3 of an APRA-regulated institution is ultimately responsible for the
      institution’s risk management framework and is responsible for the oversight
      of its operation by management. In particular, the Board must ensure that:

      (a)   it sets the risk appetite within which it expects management to operate and
            approves the institution’s risk appetite statement and risk management
            strategy (RMS);

      (b)   it forms a view of the risk culture in the institution, and the extent to
            which that culture supports the ability of the institution to operate
            consistently within its risk appetite, identify any desirable changes to the
            risk culture and ensures the institution takes steps to address those
            changes;

      (c)   senior management of the institution monitor and manage all material
            risks consistent with the strategic objectives, risk appetite statement and
            policies approved by the Board;

      (d)   the operational structure of the institution facilitates effective risk
            management;

      (e)   policies and processes are developed for risk-taking that are consistent
            with the RMS and the established risk appetite;

      (f)   sufficient resources are dedicated to risk management; and

      (g)   it recognises uncertainties, limitations and assumptions attached to the
            measurement of each material risk.

Use of group risk management by an APRA-regulated institution

10.   An APRA-regulated institution that is part of a group or other corporate group
      may meet requirements of this Prudential Standard using group risk
      management frameworks, policies, procedures or functions, provided that the
      Board of the institution is satisfied that the requirements are met in respect of
      that institution.

11.   For the avoidance of doubt, compliance by a group with the requirements of this
      Prudential Standard does not relieve an APRA-regulated institution within the
      group from the need to comply with any prudential requirements of that
      institution.

12.   Where an APRA-regulated institution is part of a group and any element of the
      risk management framework is controlled or influenced by another entity in the
      group, the institution’s risk management framework must specifically take into
      account risks arising from the group framework, and clearly identify:

3
      A reference to the Board in the case of a foreign ADI, is a reference to the senior officer
      outside Australia.



                                                                                   CPS 220 - 4
                          Authorised Version F2019L00669 registered 07/05/2019
                                                                                  July 2019


      (a)   whether the APRA-regulated institution’s risk management framework is
            derived wholly or partially from group risk management frameworks,
            policies, procedures or functions;

      (b)   the linkages and significant differences between the institution’s and the
            group’s risk management framework;

      (c)   how these linkages and significant differences change the risk profile of
            the institution; and

      (d)   the process for monitoring by, or reporting to, the group on risk
            management including the key procedures, the frequency of reporting and
            the approach to reviews of the risk management framework.

13.   Where APRA is of the view that the fulfilment of a requirement of this
      Prudential Standard by a group does not adequately address the requirement for
      an APRA-regulated institution within that group, APRA may require that
      institution to meet the requirement on a separate basis within a reasonable
      timeframe specified by APRA.

Additional requirements of the Head of a group

14.   As part of the group risk management framework (see paragraphs 19 to 25), the
      Head of a group must maintain processes to coordinate the identification,
      measurement, evaluation, monitoring, reporting, and controlling or mitigation of
      all material risks across the group, in normal times and periods of stress. The
      Head of a group must ensure its Board has a comprehensive group-wide view of
      all material risks, including an understanding of the roles and relationships of
      subsidiaries to one another and to the Head of a group.

15.   The group risk management function (see paragraphs 37 to 42) does not need to
      be a function of the Head of a group, but may be a function located elsewhere in
      the group. The group chief risk officer (CRO) cannot be the roles specified in
      paragraph 39 for any institution within the group.

16.   The Head of a group must notify APRA in accordance with paragraphs 52 to 55
      in respect of the group risk management framework, except where an APRA-
      regulated institution within the group has otherwise notified APRA of that
      information.

17.   The Head of a group must maintain a Board-approved liquidity management
      policy for the group to adequately and consistently identify, measure, monitor,
      and manage its material liquidity risks. The policy must include a strategy that
      ensures the group has sufficient liquidity to meet its obligations as they fall due,
      including in stressed conditions, and outline processes to identify existing and
      potential constraints on the transfer of funds within the group. The Head of a
      group must submit to APRA a copy of its group liquidity management policy as
      soon as practicable, and no more than 10 business days, after Board approval.

18.   Where an institution within the group that is not an APRA-regulated institution
      engages in business activities that may pose a material risk to the group, the


                                                                                CPS 220 - 5
                         Authorised Version F2019L00669 registered 07/05/2019
                                                                                           July 2019


      Head of the group must ensure that the risk management framework addresses
      the risks posed by that institution to the group and depositors, policyholders or
      RSE beneficiaries.4

Risk management framework

19.   An APRA-regulated institution must maintain a risk management framework
      for the institution that enables it to appropriately develop and implement
      strategies, policies, procedures and controls to manage different types of
      material risks, and provides the Board with a comprehensive institution-wide
      view of material risks.5

20.   The risk management framework is the totality of systems, structures, policies,
      processes and people within an institution that identify, measure, evaluate,
      monitor, report and control or mitigate all internal and external sources of
      material risk. Material risks are those that could have a material impact, both
      financial and non-financial, on the institution or on the interests of depositors
      and/or policyholders.

21.   The risk management framework must be consistent with the business plan
      required under paragraph 31.

22.   The risk management framework must provide a structure for identifying and
      managing each material risk to ensure the institution is being prudently and
      soundly managed, having regard to the size, business mix and complexity of its
      operations.

23.   The risk management framework must, at a minimum, include:

      (a)    a risk appetite statement;

      (b)    an RMS;

      (c)    a business plan;

      (d)    policies and procedures supporting clearly defined and documented roles,
             responsibilities and formal reporting structures for the management of
             material risks throughout the institution;

      (e)    a designated risk management function that meets the requirements of
             paragraph 37;

      (f)    an Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP)6;


4
      This paragraph does not override any requirements applying to an RSE licensee in SPS 220.
5
      For life companies and private health insurers, this includes a view of the material risks at the
      level of individual statutory or health benefit funds respectively.
6
      Refer to Prudential Standard APS 110 Capital Adequacy, Prudential Standard GPS 110 Capital
      Adequacy and Prudential Standard LPS 110 Capital Adequacy. A Level 3 Head is not required to
      have a group ICAAP. For private health insurers, ICAAP refers to the Capital Management
      Policy requirements contained in Prudential Standard HPS 110 Capital Adequacy.



                                                                                        CPS 220 - 6
                            Authorised Version F2019L00669 registered 07/05/2019
                                                                                    July 2019


      (g)   a management information system(s) (MIS) that is adequate, both under
            normal circumstances and in periods of stress, for measuring, assessing
            and reporting on all material risks across the institution; and

      (h)   a review process to ensure that the risk management framework is
            effective in identifying, measuring, evaluating, monitoring, reporting, and
            controlling or mitigating material risks.

24.   The risk management framework must include forward-looking scenario
      analysis and stress testing programs, commensurate with the institution’s size,
      business mix and complexity, and which are based on severe but plausible
      assumptions.

25.   The MIS must provide the Board of the APRA-regulated institution, board
      committees of the APRA-regulated institution and senior management of the
      institution with regular, accurate and timely information concerning the
      institution’s risk profile. The MIS must be supported by a robust data
      framework that enables the aggregation of exposures and risk measures across
      business lines, prompt reporting of limit breaches, and forward-looking scenario
      analysis and stress testing. Data quality must be adequate for timely and
      accurate measurement, assessment and reporting on all material risks across the
      institution and must provide a sound basis for making decisions.

Material risks

26.   The risk management framework must, at a minimum, address:

      (a)   credit risk;

      (b)   market and investment risk;

      (c)   liquidity risk;

      (d)   insurance risk;

      (e)   operational risk;

      (f)   risks arising from the strategic objectives and business plans; and

      (g)   other risks that, singly or in combination with different risks, may have a
            material impact on the institution.

Risk appetite

27.   An APRA-regulated institution must maintain an appropriate, clear and concise
      risk appetite statement for the institution that addresses the institution’s material
      risks. The Board is responsible for setting the risk appetite of the institution and
      must approve the institution’s risk appetite statement.




                                                                                  CPS 220 - 7
                           Authorised Version F2019L00669 registered 07/05/2019
                                                                                  July 2019


28.   The risk appetite statement must, at a minimum, convey:

      (a)   the degree of risk that the institution is prepared to accept in pursuit of its
            strategic objectives and business plan, giving consideration to the interests
            of depositors and/or policyholders (risk appetite);

      (b)   for each material risk, the maximum level of risk that the institution is
            willing to operate within, expressed as a risk limit and based on its risk
            appetite, risk profile and capital strength (risk tolerance);

      (c)   the process for ensuring that risk tolerances are set at an appropriate level,
            based on an estimate of the impact in the event that a risk tolerance is
            breached, and the likelihood that each material risk is realised;

      (d)   the process for monitoring compliance with each risk tolerance and for
            taking appropriate action in the event that it is breached; and

      (e)   the timing and process for review of the risk appetite and risk tolerances.

Risk management strategy

29.   An APRA-regulated institution must maintain an RMS for the institution that
      addresses each material risk listed under paragraph 26. The RMS must be
      approved by the Board.

30.   The RMS is a document that describes the strategy for managing risk and the
      key elements of the risk management framework that give effect to this strategy.
      At a minimum, an RMS must:

      (a)   describe each material risk identified, and the approach to managing these
            risks;

      (b)   list the policies and procedures dealing with risk management matters;

      (c)   summarise the role and responsibilities of the risk management function;

      (d)   describe the risk governance relationship between the Board of the
            APRA-regulated institution, board committees of the APRA-regulated
            institution and senior management of the institution with respect to the
            risk management framework; and

      (e)   outline the approach to ensuring all persons within the institution have
            awareness of the risk management framework as it relates to their role and
            for instilling an appropriate risk culture across the institution.

Business plan

31.   An APRA-regulated institution must maintain a written plan for the institution
      that sets out its approach for the implementation of its strategic objectives
      (business plan).




                                                                                CPS 220 - 8
                         Authorised Version F2019L00669 registered 07/05/2019
                                                                                        July 2019


32.   The business plan must be a rolling plan of at least three years’ duration that is
      reviewed at least annually, with the results of the review reported to the Board.
      The business plan must cover the entirety of the institution and be approved by
      the Board.

33.   An APRA-regulated institution must identify and consider the material risks
      associated with the institution’s strategic objectives and business plan, and must
      explicitly manage these risks through the risk management framework,
      including how changing these plans affects the institution’s risk profile.

34.   The requirement for a business plan does not apply to a run-off insurer
      provided that the run-off insurer complies with Prudential Standard GPS 110
      Capital Adequacy.

Policies and procedures

35.   The policies and procedures required under subparagraph 30(b) must include:

      (a)   the process for identifying and assessing material risks and controls;

      (b)   the process for the validation, approval and use of any models to measure
            components of risk;

      (c)   the process for establishing, implementing and testing mitigation
            strategies and control mechanisms for material risks;

      (d)   the process for monitoring, communicating and reporting risk issues,
            including escalation procedures for the reporting of material events and
            incidents;

      (e)   the process for identifying, monitoring and managing potential and actual
            conflicts of interest;

      (f)   the mechanisms in place for monitoring and ensuring ongoing compliance
            with all prudential requirements7;

      (g)   the process for ensuring consistency across the risk management
            framework, including the components identified under paragraph 23;

      (h)   the process for establishing and maintaining appropriate contingency
            arrangements (including robust and credible recovery plans where
            warranted) for the operation of the risk management framework in
            stressed conditions; and

      (i)   the process for review of the risk management framework.

7
      ‘Prudential requirements’ include requirements under the respective Banking Act, the Insurance
      Act, the Life Insurance Act, the PHIPS Act, the Banking Regulations 1966, the Life Insurance
      Regulations 1995, the Insurance Regulations 2002, APRA Private Health Insurance Rules,
      prudential standards, reporting standards, the Financial Sector (Collection of Data) Act 2001,
      licence conditions, authorisations, directions and any other requirements imposed by APRA
      under legislation.



                                                                                     CPS 220 - 9
                           Authorised Version F2019L00669 registered 07/05/2019
                                                                                  July 2019


36.   An APRA-regulated institution must monitor the date when each policy or
      procedure was last revised, the date that it is next due for review, and who is
      responsible for the review.

Risk management function

37.   An APRA-regulated institution must have a designated risk management
      function for the institution that, at a minimum:

      (a)   is responsible for assisting the Board of the APRA-regulated institution,
            board committees of the APRA-regulated institution and senior
            management of the institution to maintain the risk management
            framework;

      (b)   is appropriate to the size, business mix and complexity of the institution;

      (c)   is operationally independent;

      (d)   has the necessary authority and reporting lines to the Board of the APRA-
            regulated institution, board committees of the APRA-regulated institution
            and senior management of the institution to conduct its risk management
            activities in an effective and independent manner;

      (e)   is resourced with staff who have clearly defined roles and responsibilities
            and who possess appropriate experience and qualifications to exercise
            those responsibilities;

      (f)   has access to all aspects of the institution that have the potential to
            generate material risk, including information technology systems and
            systems development resources; and

      (g)   is required to notify the Board of any significant breach of, or material
            deviation from, the risk management framework.

38.   An APRA-regulated institution must designate a person to be responsible for
      that function, referred to in this standard as a CRO. The CRO must be involved
      in, and have the authority to provide effective challenge to, activities and
      decisions that may materially affect the institution’s risk profile.

39.   The CRO must be independent from business lines, other revenue-generating
      responsibilities and the finance function. The CRO must not be the Chief
      Executive Officer (CEO), Chief Financial Officer, Appointed Actuary or Head
      of Internal Audit.

40.   The CRO must have a direct reporting line to the CEO, and have regular and
      unfettered access to the Board and the Board Risk Committee.

41.   Where an APRA-regulated institution believes that the requirements in
      paragraphs 39 and 40 are inappropriate for its particular circumstances, it may
      propose alternative arrangements to APRA. Proposals for alternative
      arrangements must outline the circumstances that are particular to that
      institution and include details of, and supporting reasons for, these

                                                                               CPS 220 - 10
                        Authorised Version F2019L00669 registered 07/05/2019
                                                                                     July 2019


      arrangements. APRA may approve alternative arrangements for the institution if
      satisfied that those arrangements, in APRA’s view, achieve the objectives of
      this Prudential Standard.

42.   An APRA-regulated institution may engage the services of an external service
      provider to perform part of the risk management function where the APRA-
      regulated institution can demonstrate to APRA that the risk management
      function meets the requirements in paragraph 37.8

Compliance function

43.   An APRA-regulated institution must have a designated compliance function that
      assists senior management of the institution in effectively managing compliance
      risks. The compliance function must be adequately staffed by appropriately
      trained and competent persons who have sufficient authority to perform their
      role effectively, and have a reporting line independent from business lines.

Review of the risk management framework

44.   An APRA-regulated institution must ensure that compliance with, and the
      effectiveness of, the risk management framework of the institution is subject to
      review by internal and/or external audit at least annually. The results of this
      review must be reported to the institution’s Board Audit Committee, the senior
      officer outside of Australia or Compliance Committee, as relevant.

45.   An APRA-regulated institution must, in addition to paragraph 44, ensure that
      the appropriateness, effectiveness and adequacy of the institution’s risk
      management framework are subject to a comprehensive review by operationally
      independent, appropriately trained and competent persons (this may include
      external consultants) at least every three years.9 The results of this review must
      be reported to the institution’s Board Risk Committee, the senior officer outside
      Australia or Compliance Committee, as relevant.

46.   The scope of the comprehensive review must have regard to the size, business
      mix and complexity of the institution, the extent of any change to its operations
      or risk appetite, and any changes to the external environment in which the
      institution operates.

47.   The comprehensive review of the risk management framework must, at a
      minimum, assess whether:

      (a)   the framework is implemented and effective;

      (b)   it remains appropriate, taking into account the current business plan;

8
      Outsourcing any part of the risk management function by an APRA-regulated institution must
      also meet the requirements in Prudential Standard CPS 231 Outsourcing or Prudential
      Standard HPS 231 Outsourcing.
9
      For insurers, the review must take into account the Appointed Actuary’s annual Financial
      Condition Report assessments required under Prudential Standard CPS 320 Actuarial and
      Related Matters.



                                                                                 CPS 220 - 11
                          Authorised Version F2019L00669 registered 07/05/2019
                                                                                     July 2019


      (c)   it remains consistent with the Board’s risk appetite;

      (d)   it is supported by adequate resources; and

      (e)   the RMS accurately documents the key elements of the risk management
            framework that give effect to the strategy for managing risk.

48.   Where a material change to the size, business mix and complexity of the
      operations is identified outside the review required in paragraph 45, the APRA-
      regulated institution must assess whether any amendment to, or a review of, the
      risk management framework is necessary to take account of these developments
      at that time.

Risk management declaration

49.   The Board of an APRA-regulated institution must make an annual declaration to
      APRA on risk management of the institution (risk management declaration) that
      must satisfy the requirements set out in Attachment A to this Prudential
      Standard. The declaration must be signed by the chairperson of the Board and
      the chairperson of the Board Risk Committee. In the case of a Category C
      insurer, foreign ADI, or EFLIC, the risk management declaration must be
      signed by the senior officer outside Australia or two members of the
      Compliance Committee, as relevant.

50.   The Board of an APRA-regulated institution must qualify the risk management
      declaration of the institution if there has been any significant breach of, or
      material deviation from, the risk management framework or the requirements
      set out in Attachment A to this Prudential Standard. Any qualification must
      include a description of the cause and circumstances of the qualification and
      steps taken, or proposed to be taken, to remedy the problem.10

51.   Unless otherwise approved by APRA, an APRA-regulated institution must
      submit the risk management declaration of the institution to APRA:

      (a)   within four months of its annual balance date if it is an ADI or authorised
            banking NOHC that is not a disclosing entity within the meaning of the
            Corporations Act 2001;

      (b)   within four months of its annual balance date if it is a Level 3 Head; or

      (c)   for all other APRA-regulated institutions, within three months of its
            annual balance date.




10
      Where relevant, any qualification of a risk management declaration must identify where the
      material deviation has occurred and whether it was on a Level 1/individual APRA-regulated
      institution basis and/or group basis.



                                                                                 CPS 220 - 12
                          Authorised Version F2019L00669 registered 07/05/2019
                                                                                   July 2019


Notification requirements

52.   An APRA-regulated institution must on adoption, and following any material
      revisions, submit to APRA a copy of the institution’s:

      (a)   risk appetite statement;

      (b)   business plan; and

      (c)   RMS

      as soon as practicable, and no more than 10 business days, after Board approval.

53.   An APRA-regulated institution must notify APRA as soon as practicable, and
      no more than 10 business days, after it becomes aware:

      (a)   of a significant breach of, or material deviation from, the risk management
            framework of the institution; or

      (b)   that the risk management framework of the institution did not adequately
            address a material risk.

54.   An APRA-regulated institution must notify APRA as soon as practicable, and
      no more than 10 business days, after it becomes aware of any material or
      prospective material changes to the size, business mix and complexity of the
      institution.

55.   Where an APRA-regulated institution conducts business in a jurisdiction outside
      Australia, it must notify APRA as soon as practicable, and no more than 10
      business days, after it becomes aware that its right to conduct business in that
      jurisdiction has been materially affected by the law of that jurisdiction or its
      right to conduct business has ceased.

Adjustments and exclusions

56.   APRA may adjust or exclude a specific requirement in this Prudential Standard
      in relation to an APRA-regulated institution.11

Determinations made under previous prudential standards

57.   An exercise of APRA’s discretion under a previous version of a risk
      management prudential standard continues to have effect under this Prudential
      Standard. For the purposes of this paragraph, ‘a previous version of a risk
      management prudential standard’ includes any versions of:

      (a)   Prudential Standard CPS 220 Risk Management;

      (b)   Prudential Standard GPS 220 Risk Management;

11
      Refer to subsection 11AF(2) of the Banking Act, subsection 32(3D) of the Insurance Act,
      subsection 230A(4) of the Life Insurance Act and subsection 92(4) of the PHIPS Act.



                                                                                CPS 220 - 13
                         Authorised Version F2019L00669 registered 07/05/2019
                                                                           July 2019


(c)   Prudential Standard GPS 221 Risk Management: Level 2 Insurance
      Groups; and

(d)   Prudential Standard LPS 220 Risk Management.




                                                                        CPS 220 - 14
                 Authorised Version F2019L00669 registered 07/05/2019
                                                                                    July 2019


Attachment A – Risk Management Declaration

1.   For the purposes of paragraph 49 of this Prudential Standard, the Board of an
     APRA-regulated institution must provide APRA with a risk management
     declaration of the institution stating that, to the best of its knowledge and having
     made appropriate enquiries, in all material respects:

     (a)   the institution has in place systems for ensuring compliance with all
           prudential requirements;

     (b)   the systems and resources that are in place for identifying, measuring,
           evaluating, monitoring, reporting, and controlling or mitigating material
           risks, and the risk management framework, are appropriate to the
           institution, having regard to the size, business mix and complexity of the
           institution;

     (c)   the risk management and internal control systems in place are operating
           effectively and are adequate having regard to the risks of the institution
           they are designed to control;

     (d)   the institution has a RMS that complies with this Prudential Standard, and
           the institution has complied with each measure and control described in
           the RMS;

     (e)   where it is a general insurer, the institution’s Reinsurance Management
           Strategy complies with Prudential Standard GPS 230 Reinsurance
           Management, for selecting and monitoring reinsurance programs; and

     (f)   the APRA-regulated institution is satisfied with the efficacy of the
           processes and systems surrounding the production of financial information
           at the institution.




                                                                  CPS 220 – Attachment A - 15



                        Authorised Version F2019L00669 registered 07/05/2019
